 ['This paper develops methods of inference for nonparametric and semiparametric parameters defined by conditional moment inequalities and/or equalities. The parameters need not be identified. Confidence sets and tests are introduced. The correct uniform asymptotic size of these procedures is established. The false coverage probabilities and power of the CS\xe2\x80\x99s and tests are established for fixed alternatives and some local alternatives. Finite-sample simulation results are given for a nonparametric conditional quantile model with censoring and a nonparametric conditional treatment effect model. The recommended CS/test uses a Cram\xc3\xa9r\xe2\x80\x93von-Mises-type test statistic and employs a generalized moment selection critical value.'] ['This paper determines the properties of standard generalized method of moments (GMM) estimators, tests, and confidence sets (CS\'s) in moment condition models in which some parameters are unidentified or weakly identified in part of the parameter space. The asymptotic distributions of GMM estimators are established under a full range of drifting sequences of true parameters and distributions. The asymptotic sizes (in a uniform sense) of standard GMM tests and CS\'s are established. The paper also establishes the correct asymptotic sizes of "robust" GMM-based Wald, t, and quasi-likelihood ratio tests and CS\'s whose critical values are designed to yield robustness to identification problems. The results of the paper are applied to a nonlinear regression model with endogeneity and a probit model with endogeneity and possibly weak instrumental variables.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" This paper introduces a new confidence interval (CI) for the autoregressive parameter (AR) in an AR(1) model that allows for conditional heteroskedasticity of a general form and AR parameters that are less than or equal to unity. The CI is a modification of Mikusheva's (2007a) modification of Stock's (1991) CI that employs the least squares estimator and a heteroskedasticity-robust variance estimator. The CI is shown to have correct asymptotic size and to be asymptotically similar (in a uniform sense). It does not require any tuning parameters. No existing procedures have these properties. Monte Carlo simulations show that the CI performs well in finite samples in terms of coverage probability and average length, for innovations with and without conditional heteroskedasticity. \xc2\xa9 2014 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] ['This paper analyzes the properties of a class of estimators, tests, and confidence sets (CSs) when the parameters are not identified in parts of the parameter space. Specifically, we consider estimator criterion functions that are sample averages and are smooth functions of a parameter \xce\xb8. This includes log likelihood, quasi-log likelihood, and least squares criterion functions.'] ["In this paper, we propose an instrumental variable approach to constructing confidence sets (CS's) for the true parameter in models defined by conditional moment inequalities/equalities. We show that by properly choosing instrument functions, one can transform conditional moment inequalities/equalities into unconditional ones without losing identification power. Based on the unconditional moment inequalities/equalities, we construct CS's by inverting Cramer-von Mises-type or Kolmogorov-Smirnov-type tests. Critical values are obtained using generalized moment selection (GMS) procedures. We show that the proposed CS's have correct uniform asymptotic coverage probabilities. New methods are required to establish these results because an infinite-dimensional nuisance parameter affects the asymptotic distributions. We show that the tests considered are consistent against all fixed alternatives and typically have power against n^{-1/2}-local alternatives to some, but not all, sequences of distributions in the null hypothesis. Monte Carlo simulations for five different models show that the methods perform well in finite samples.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["This paper analyzes the properties of standard estimators, tests, and confidence sets (CS's) in a class of models in which the parameters are unidentified or weakly identified in some parts of the parameter space. The paper also introduces methods to make the tests and CS's robust to such identification problems. The results apply to a class of extremum estimators and corresponding tests and CS's, including maximum likelihood (ML), least squares (LS), quantile, generalized method of moments (GMM), generalized empirical likelihood (GEL), minimum distance (MD), and semi-parametric estimators. The consistency/lack-of-consistency and asymptotic distributions of the estimators are established under a full range of drifting sequences of true distributions. The asymptotic size (in a uniform sense) of standard tests and CS's is established. The results are applied to the ML estimator of an ARMA(1, 1) model and to the LS estimator of a nonlinear regression model.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['This paper is concerned with tests and confidence intervals for partially-identified parameters that are defined by moment inequalities and equalities. In the literature, different test statistics, critical value methods, and implementation methods (i.e., asymptotic distribution versus the bootstrap) have been proposed. In this paper, we compare a wide variety of these methods. We provide a recommended test statistic, moment selection critical value method, and implementation method. In addition, we provide a data-dependent procedure for choosing the key moment selection tuning parameter and a data-dependent size-correction factor.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['We consider a first-order autoregressive model with conditionally heteroskedastic innovations. The asymptotic distributions of least squares (LS), infeasible generalized least squares (GLS), and feasible GLS estimators and t statistics are determined. The GLS procedures allow for misspecification of the form of the conditional heteroskedasticity and, hence, are referred to as quasi-GLS procedures. The asymptotic results are established for drifting sequences of the autoregressive parameter \xcf\x81n and the distribution of the time series of innovations. In particular, we consider the full range of cases in which \xcf\x81n satisfies n(1\xe2\x88\x92\xcf\x81n)\xe2\x86\x92\xe2\x88\x9e and n(1\xe2\x88\x92\xcf\x81n)\xe2\x86\x92h1\xe2\x88\x88[0,\xe2\x88\x9e) as n\xe2\x86\x92\xe2\x88\x9e, where n is the sample size. Results of this type are needed to establish the uniform asymptotic properties of the LS and quasi-GLS statistics.'] ['This paper analyzes the properties of subsampling, hybrid subsampling, and size-correction methods in two non-regular models. The latter two procedures are introduced in Andrews and Guggenberger (2009a). The models are non-regular in the sense that the test statistics of interest exhibit a discontinuity in their limit distribution as a function of a parameter in the model. The first model is a linear instrumental variables (IV) model with possibly weak IVs estimated using two-stage least squares (2SLS). In this case, the discontinuity occurs when the concentration parameter is zero. The second model is a linear regression model in which the parameter of interest may be near a boundary. In this case, the discontinuity occurs when the parameter is on the boundary. The paper shows that in the IV model one-sided and equal-tailed two-sided subsampling tests and confidence intervals (CIs) based on the 2SLS t statistic do not have correct asymptotic size. This holds for both fully- and partially-studentized t statistics. But, subsampling procedures based on the partially-studentized t statistic can be size-corrected. On the other hand, symmetric two-sided subsampling tests and CIs are shown to have (essentially) correct asymptotic size when based on a partially-studentized t statistic. Furthermore, all types of hybrid subsampling tests and CIs are shown to have correct asymptotic size in this model. The above results are consistent with "impossibility" results of Dufour (1997) because subsampling and hybrid subsampling CIs are shown to have infinite length with positive probability. Subsampling CIs for a parameter that may be near a lower boundary are shown to have incorrect asymptotic size for upper one-sided and equal-tailed and symmetric two-sided CIs. Again, size-correction is possible. In this model as well, all types of hybrid subsampling CIs are found to have correct asymptotic size.'] ['This paper considers inference based on a test statistic that has a limit distribution that is discontinuous in a parameter. The paper shows that subsampling and m out of n bootstrap tests based on such a test statistic often have asymptotic size\xe2\x80\x94defined as the limit of exact size\xe2\x80\x94that is greater than the nominal level of the tests. This is due to a lack of uniformity in the pointwise asymptotics. We determine precisely the asymptotic size of such tests under a general set of high-level conditions that are relatively easy to verify. The results show that the asymptotic size of subsampling and m out of n bootstrap tests is distorted in some examples but not in others.'] [' The topic of this paper is inference in models in which parameters are defined by moment inequalities and/or equalities. The parameters may or may not be identified. This paper introduces a new class of confidence sets and tests based on generalized moment selection (GMS). GMS procedures are shown to have correct asymptotic size in a uniform sense and are shown not to be asymptotically conservative. Copyright 2010 The Econometric Society.'] [' This paper analyses the finite-sample and asymptotic properties of several bootstrap and\xe2\x80\x82m\xe2\x80\x82out of\xe2\x80\x82n\xe2\x80\x82bootstrap methods for constructing confidence interval (CI) endpoints in models defined by moment inequalities. In particular, we consider using these methods directly to construct CI endpoints. By considering two very simple models, the paper shows that neither the bootstrap nor the\xe2\x80\x82m\xe2\x80\x82out of\xe2\x80\x82n\xe2\x80\x82bootstrap is valid in finite samples or in a uniform asymptotic sense in general when applied directly to construct CI endpoints. Copyright (C) The Author(s). Journal compilation (C) Royal Economic Society 2009'] ['This paper considers inference for parameters defined by moment inequalities and equalities. The parameters need not be identified. For a specified class of test statistics, this paper establishes the uniform asymptotic validity of subsampling, m out of n bootstrap, and \xe2\x80\x9cplug-in asymptotic\xe2\x80\x9d tests and confidence intervals for such parameters. Establishing uniform asymptotic validity is crucial in moment inequality problems because the pointwise asymptotic distributions of the test statistics of interest have discontinuities as functions of the true distribution that generates the observations.'] [' This paper considers inference in a broad class of nonregular models. The models considered are nonregular in the sense that standard test statistics have asymptotic distributions that are discontinuous in some parameters. It is shown in Andrews and Guggenberger (2009a) that standard fixed critical value, subsampling, and m out of n bootstrap methods often have incorrect asymptotic size in such models. This paper introduces general methods of constructing tests and confidence intervals that have correct asymptotic size. In particular, we consider a hybrid subsampling/fixed-critical-value method and size-correction methods. The paper discusses two examples in detail. They are (i) confidence intervals in an autoregressive model with a root that may be close to unity and conditional heteroskedasticity of unknown form and (ii) tests and confidence intervals based on a post-conservative model selection estimator. Copyright 2009 The Econometric Society.'] ['Subsampling and the m out of n bootstrap have been suggested in the literature as methods for carrying out inference based on post-model selection estimators and shrinkage estimators. In this paper we consider a subsampling confidence interval (CI) that is based on an estimator that can be viewed either as a post-model selection estimator that employs a consistent model selection procedure or as a super-efficient estimator. We show that the subsampling CI (of nominal level 1-[alpha] for any [alpha][set membership, variant](0,1)) has asymptotic confidence size (defined to be the limit of finite-sample size) equal to zero in a very simple regular model. The same result holds for the m out of n bootstrap provided m2/n--&gt;0 and the observations are i.i.d. Similar zero-asymptotic-confidence-size results hold in more complicated models that are covered by the general results given in the paper and for super-efficient and shrinkage estimators that are not post-model selection estimators. Based on these results, subsampling and the m out of n bootstrap are not recommended for obtaining inference based on post-consistent model selection or shrinkage estimators.'] [' This article considers a mean zero stationary first-order autoregressive (AR) model. It is shown that the least squares estimator and t statistic have Cauchy and standard normal asymptotic distributions, respectively, when the AR parameter rho_n is very near to one in the sense that 1 - rho_n = o(n-super- - 1). Copyright 2007 The Author Journal compilation 2007 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] ['As Nelson and Startz [Nelson, C.R., Startz, R., 1990a. The distribution of the instrumental variable estimator and its t ratio when the instrument is a poor one. Journal of Business 63, S125-S140; Nelson, C.R., Startz, R., 1990b. Some further results on the exact small sample properties of the instrumental variables estimator. Econometrica 58, 967-976] dramatically demonstrated, standard hypothesis tests and confidence intervals in instrumental variables regression are invalid when instruments are weak. Recent work on hypothesis tests for the coefficient on a single included endogenous regressor when instruments may be weak has focused on similar tests. This paper extends that work to nonsimilar tests, of which similar tests are a subset. The power envelope for two-sided invariant (to rotations of the instruments) nonsimilar tests is characterized theoretically, then evaluated numerically for five IVs. The power envelopes for similar and nonsimilar tests differ theoretically, but are found to be very close numerically. The nonsimilar test power envelope is effectively achieved by the Moreira [Moreira, M.J., 2003. A conditional likelihood ratio test for structural models. Econometrica 71, 1027-1048] conditional likelihood ratio test, so that test is effectively uniformly most powerful invariant (UMPI). We also provide a new nonsimilar test, P*, which has critical values, is asymptotically efficient under strong instruments, involves only elementary functions, and is very nearly UMPI.'] ['This paper introduces a rank-based test for the instrumental variables regression model that dominates the Anderson-Rubin test in terms of finite sample size and asymptotic power in certain circumstances. The test has correct size for any distribution of the errors with weak or strong instruments. The test has noticeably higher power than the Anderson-Rubin test when the error distribution has thick tails and comparable power otherwise. Like the Anderson-Rubin test, the rank tests considered here perform best, relative to other available tests, in exactly-identified models.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper considers tests in an instrumental variables (IVs) regression model with IVs that may be weak. Tests that have near-optimal asymptotic power properties with Gaussian errors for weak and strong IVs have been determined in Andrews, Moreira, and Stock (2006a). In this paper, we seek tests that have near-optimal asymptotic power with Gaussian errors and improved power with non-Gaussian errors relative to existing tests. Tests with such properties are obtained by introducing rank tests that are analogous to the conditional likelihood ratio test of Moreira (2003). We also introduce a rank test that is analogous to the Lagrange multiplier test of Kleibergen (2002) and Moreira (2001).<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper considers tests of the parameter on an endogenous variable in an instrumental variables regression model. The focus is on determining tests that have some optimal power properties. We start by considering a model with normally distributed errors and known error covariance matrix. We consider tests that are similar and satisfy a natural rotational invariance condition. We determine a two-sided power envelope for invariant similar tests. This allows us to assess and compare the power properties of tests such as the conditional likelihood ratio (CLR), the Lagrange multiplier, and the Anderson-Rubin tests. We find that the CLR test is quite close to being uniformly most powerful invariant among a class of two-sided tests. Copyright The Econometric Society 2006.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper determines coverage probability errors of both delta method and parametric bootstrap confidence intervals (CIs) for the covariance parameters of stationary long-memory Gaussian time series. CIs for the long-memory parameter d_0 are included. The results establish that the bootstrap provides higher-order improvements over the delta method. Analogous results are given for tests. The CIs and tests are based on one or other of two approximate maximum likelihood estimators. The first estimator solves the first-order conditions with respect to the covariance parameters of a "plug-in" log-likelihood function that has the unknown mean replaced by the sample mean. The second estimator does likewise for a plug-in Whittle log-likelihood. The magnitudes of the coverage probability errors for one-sided bootstrap CIs for covariance parameters for long-memory time series are shown to be essentially the same as they are with iid data. This occurs even though the mean of the time series cannot be estimated at the usual n^{1/2} rate.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['In this paper, we prove the validity of an Edgeworth expansion to the distribution of the Whittle maximum likelihood estimator for stationary long-memory Gaussian models with unknown parameter theta in Theta subset R^{d_{theta}} . The error of the (s-2)-order expansion is shown to be o(n^{(s-2)/2}) -- the usual iid rate -- for a wide range of models, including the popular ARFIMA(p,d,q) models. The expansion is valid under mild assumptions on the behavior of spectral density and its derivatives in the neighborhood of the origin. As a by-product, we generalize a Theorem by Fox and Taqqu (1987) concerning the asymptotic behavior of Toeplitz matrices. Lieberman, Rousseau, and Zucker (2002) (LRZ) establish a valid Edgeworth expansion for the maximum likelihood estimator for stationary long-memory Gaussian models. For a significant class of models, their expansion is shown to have an error of o(n-1). The results given here improve upon those of LRZ in that the results provide an Edgeworth expansion for an asymptotically efficient estimator, as LRZ do, but the error of the expansion is shown to be o(n^{-(s-2)/2}), not o(n^{-1}), for a broad range of models.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper considers regression models for cross-section data that exhibit cross-section dependence due to common shocks, such as macroeconomic shocks. The paper analyzes the properties of least squares (LS) estimators in this context. The results of the paper allow for any form of cross-section dependence and heterogeneity across population units. The probability limits of the LS estimators are determined, and necessary and sufficient conditions are given for consistency. The asymptotic distributions of the estimators are found to be mixed normal after recentering and scaling. The t, Wald, and F statistics are found to have asymptotic standard normal, \xcf\x87-super-2, and scaled \xcf\x87-super-2 distributions, respectively, under the null hypothesis when the conditions required for consistency of the parameter under test hold. However, the absolute values of t, Wald, and F statistics are found to diverge to infinity under the null hypothesis when these conditions fail. Confidence intervals exhibit similarly dichotomous behavior. Hence, common shocks are found to be innocuous in some circumstances, but quite problematic in others. Copyright The Econometric Society 2005.'] [' The local Whittle (or Gaussian semiparametric) estimator of long range dependence, proposed by K\xc3\x83\xc2\xbcnsch (1987) and analyzed by Robinson (1995a), has a relatively slow rate of convergence and a finite sample bias that can be large. In this paper, we generalize the local Whittle estimator to circumvent these problems. Instead of approximating the short-run component of the spectrum,  &amp;phiv;(\xce\xbb) , by a constant in a shrinking neighborhood of frequency zero, we approximate its logarithm by a polynomial. This leads to a "local polynomial Whittle" (LPW) estimator. We specify a data-dependent adaptive procedure that adjusts the degree of the polynomial to the smoothness of  &amp;phiv;(\xce\xbb)  at zero and selects the bandwidth. The resulting "adaptive LPW" estimator is shown to achieve the optimal rate of convergence, which depends on the smoothness of  &amp;phiv;(\xce\xbb)  at zero, up to a logarithmic factor. Copyright The Econometric Society 2004.'] [' The asymptotic refinements attributable to the block bootstrap for time series are not as large as those of the nonparametric iid bootstrap or the parametric bootstrap. One reason is that the independence between the blocks in the block bootstrap sample does not mimic the dependence structure of the original sample. This is the join-point problem. Copyright The Econometric Society 2004.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' In this paper, we propose a simple bias--reduced log--periodogram regression estimator, "\xcb\x86d-sub-r", of the long--memory parameter, "d", that eliminates the first-- and higher--order biases of the Geweke and Porter--Hudak (1983) (GPH) estimator. The bias--reduced estimator is the same as the GPH estimator except that one includes frequencies to the power 2"k" for "k"&amp;equals;1,\xe2\x80\xa6,"r", for some positive integer "r", as additional regressors in the pseudo--regression model that yields the GPH estimator. The reduction in bias is obtained using assumptions on the spectrum only in a neighborhood of the zero frequency.Following the work of Robinson (1995b) and Hurvich, Deo, and Brodsky (1998), we establish the asymptotic bias, variance, and mean--squared error (MSE) of "\xcb\x86d-sub-r", determine the asymptotic MSE optimal choice of the number of frequencies, "m", to include in the regression, and establish the asymptotic normality of "\xcb\x86d-sub-r". These results show that the bias of "\xcb\x86d-sub-r" goes to zero at a faster rate than that of the GPH estimator when the normalized spectrum at zero is sufficiently smooth, but that its variance only is increased by a multiplicative constant.We show that the bias--reduced estimator "\xcb\x86d-sub-r" attains the optimal rate of convergence for a class of spectral densities that includes those that are smooth of order "s"\xe2\x89\xa51 at zero when "r"\xe2\x89\xa5("s" - 2)&amp;sol;2 and "m" is chosen appropriately. For "s"&gt;2, the GPH estimator does not attain this rate. The proof uses results of Giraitis, Robinson, and Samarov (1997).We specify a data--dependent plug--in method for selecting the number of frequencies "m" to minimize asymptotic MSE for a given value of "r".Some Monte Carlo simulation results for stationary Gaussian ARFIMA (1, "d", 1) and (2, "d", 0) models show that the bias--reduced estimators perform well relative to the standard log--periodogram regression estimator. Copyright The Econometric Society 2003.'] [' This paper considers tests for structural instability of short duration, such as at the end of the sample. The key feature of the testing problem is that the number, m, of observations in the period of potential change is relatively small-possibly as small as one. The well-known F test of Chow (1960) for this problem only applies in a linear regression model with normally distributed iid errors and strictly exogenous regressors, even when the total number of observations, n&amp;plus;m, is large. Copyright The Econometric Society 2003.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper establishes the higher-order equivalence of the "k"-step bootstrap, introduced recently by Davidson and MacKinnon (1999), and the standard bootstrap. The "k"-step bootstrap is a very attractive alternative computationally to the standard bootstrap for statistics based on nonlinear extremum estimators, such as generalized method of moment and maximum likelihood estimators. The paper also extends results of Hall and Horowitz (1996) to provide new results regarding the higher-order improvements of the standard bootstrap and the "k"-step bootstrap for extremum estimators (compared to procedures based on first-order asymptotics). The results of the paper apply to Newton-Raphson (NR), default NR, line-search NR, and Gauss-Newton "k"-step bootstrap procedures. The results apply to the nonparametric iid bootstrap and nonoverlapping and overlapping block bootstraps. The results cover symmetric and equal-tailed two-sided "t" tests and confidence intervals, one-sided "t" tests and confidence intervals, Wald tests and confidence regions, and "J" tests of over-identifying restrictions. Copyright The Econometric Society 2002.'] ['This paper considers the problem of choosing the number bootstrap repetitions B to use with the BC_{a} bootstrap confidence intervals introduced by Efron (1987). Because the simulated random variables are ancillary, we seek a choice of B that yields a confidence interval that is close to the ideal bootstrap confidence interval for which B = infinity. We specifiy a three-step method of choosing B that ensures that the lower and upper lengths of the confidence interval deviate from those of the ideal bootstrap confidence interval by at most a small percentage with high probability.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This article establishes the asymptotic distributions of generalized method of moments (GMM) estimators when the true parameter lies on the boundary of the parameter space. The conditions allow the estimator objective function to be nonsmooth and to depend on preliminary estimators. The boundary of the parameter space may be curved and/or kinked. The article discusses three examples: (1) instrumental variables (IV) estimation of a regression model with nonlinear equality and/or inequality restrictions on the parameters; (2) method of simulated moments estimation of a multinomial discrete response model with some random coefficient variances equal to 0, some random effect variances equal to 0, or some measurement error variances equal to 0; and (3) semiparametric least squares estimation of a partially linear regression model with nonlinear equality and/or inequality restrictions on the parameters.'] ['It is well known that a one-step scoring estimator that starts from any N^{1/2}-consistent estimator has the same first-order asymptotic efficiency as the maximum likelihood estimator. This paper extends this result to k-step estimators and test statistics for k &gt;= 1, higher-order asymptotic efficiency, and general extremum estimators and test statistics. The paper shows that a k-step estimator has the same higher-order asymptotic efficiency, to any given order, as the extremum estimator towards which it is stepping, provided (i) k is sufficiently large, (ii) some smoothness and moment conditions hold, and (iii) a condition on the initial estimator holds. For example, for the Newton-Raphson k-step estimator, we obtain asymptotic equivalence to integer order s provided 2^{k} &gt;= s + 1. Thus, for k = 1, 2, and 3, one obtains asymptotic equivalence to first, third, and seventh orders respectively. This means that the maximum differences between the probabilities that the (N^{1/2}-normalized) k-step and extremum estimators lie in any convex set are o(1), o(N^{-3/2}), and o(N^{-3}) respectively.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper considers testing problems where several of the standard regularity conditions fail to hold. We consider the case where (i) parameter vectors in the null hypothesis may lie on the boundary of the maintained hypothesis and (ii) there may be a nuisance parameter that appears under the alternative hypothesis, but not under the null. The paper establishes the asymptotic null and local alternative distributions of quasi-likelihood ratio, rescaled quasilikelihood ratio, Wald, and score tests in this case. The results apply to tests based on a wide variety of extremum estimators and apply to a wide variety of models. Examples treated in the paper are: (i) tests of the null hypothesis of no conditional heteroskedasticity in a GARCH(1,-1) regression model and (ii) tests of the null hypothesis that some random coefficients have variances equal to zero in a random coefficients regression model with (possibly) correlated random coefficients.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper considers the problem of choosing the number of bootstrap repetitions B for bootstrap standard errors, confidence intervals, confidence regions, hypothesis tests, p-values, and bias correction. For each of these problems, the paper provides a three-step method for choosing B to achieve a desired level of accuracy. Accuracy is measured by the percentage deviation of the bootstrap standard error estimate, confidence interval length, test's critical value, test's p-value, or bias-corrected estimate based on B bootstrap simulations from the corresponding ideal bootstrap quantities for which B = infinity. The results apply to parametric, semiparametric, and nonparametric models with independent or dependent data."] [' This paper considers a generalized method of moments (GMM) estimation problem in which one has a vector of moment conditions, some of which are correct and some incorrect. The paper introduces several procedures for consistently selecting the correct moment conditions. Application of the results of the paper to instrumental variables estimation problems yields consistent procedures for selecting instrumental variables. The paper specifies moment selection criteria that are GMM analogues of the widely used BIC and AIC model selection criteria. (The latter is not consistent.) The paper also considers downward and upward testing procedures.'] [' This paper establishes the asymptotic distribution of extremum estimators when the true parameter lies on the boundary of the parameter space. The boundary may be linear, curved, and/or kinked. Typically the asymptotic distribution is a function of a multivariate normal distribution in models without stochastic trends and a function of a multivariate Brownian motion in models with stochastic trends. The results apply to a wide variety of estimators and models. Examples treated in the paper are: (1) quasi-ML estimation of a random coefficients regression model with some coefficient variances equal to zero and (2) LS estimation of an augmented Dickey-Fuller regression with unit root and time trend parameters on the boundary of the parameter space.'] [" This paper provides a consistent and asymptotically normal estimator for the intercept of a semiparametrically estimated sample selection model. The estimator uses a decreasingly small fraction of all observations as the sample size goes to infinity, as in J. J. Heckman (1990). In the semiparametrics literature, estimation of the intercept has typically been subsumed in the nonparametric sample selection bias correction term. The estimation of the intercept, however, is important from an economic perspective. For instance, it permits one to determine the 'wage gap' between unionized and nonunionized workers, decompose the wage differential between different socioeconomic groups (e.g., male-female and black-white), and evaluate the net benefits of a social program. Copyright 1998 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited."] ['This paper considers hypothesis tests for nonlinear econometric models when the parameter space is restricted under the alternative hypothesis. Multivariate one-sided tests are a leading example. Asymptotically optimal tests are derived using a weighted average power criterion. In addition, the likelihood ratio test is shown to be asymptotically admissible and to maximize asymptotic power against alternatives that are arbitrarily distant from the null hypothesis. For Gaussian linear regression models with known variance, analogous exact finite sample results are established.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper introduces a conditional Kolmogorov test of model specification for parametric models with covariates (regressors). The test is an extension of the Kolmogorov test of goodness-of-fit for distribution functions. The test is shown to have power against 1/[square root of n] local alternatives and all fixed alternatives to the null hypothesis. A parametric bootstrap procedure is used to obtain critical values for the test.'] ['To obtain consistency and asymptotic normality, a generalized method of moments (GAM) estimator typically is defined to be an approximate global minimizer of a GAM criterion function. To compute such an estimator, however, can be problematic because of the difficulty of global optimization. To alleviate this problem, the author proposes a stopping-rule (SR) procedure for computing GAM estimators. The SR procedure eliminates the need for global search with high probability. And, it provides an explicit SR for problems of stability that may arise with local optimization problems.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper determines a class of finite sample optimal tests for the existence of a changepoint at an unknown time in a normal linear multiple regression model with known variance. Optimal tests for multiple changepoints are also derived. Power comparisons of several tests are provided based on simulations.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper presents a number of consistency results for nonparametric kernel estimators of density and regression functions and their derivatives. These results are particularly useful in semiparametric estimation and testing problems that rely on preliminary nonparametric estimators, as in Andrews (1994, Econometrica 62, 43\xe2\x80\x9372). The results allow for near-epoch dependent, nonidentically distributed random variables, data-dependent bandwidth sequences, preliminary estimation of parameters (e.g., nonparametric regression based on residuals), and nonparametric regression on index functions.'] [' This paper considers an alternative asymptotic framework to standard sequential asymptotics for nonlinear models with deterministically trending variables. The asymptotic distributions of generalized method of moments estimators and corresponding test statistics are derived using this framework. The asymptotic distributions are shown to be the same with deterministically trending variables as with nontrending variables. That is, the distributions are normal and chi-squared respectively. The asymptotic covariance matrices of the estimators, however, are found to depend on the form of the trends. These findings provide a justification for the use of standard asymptotic approximations in nonlinear models even when the variables have deterministic trends. Copyright 1995 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] [' This paper establishes a correspondence in large samples between classical hypothesis tests and Bayesian posterior odds tests for models without trends. More specifically, tests of point null hypotheses and one- or two-sided alternatives are considered (where nuisance parameters may be present under both hypotheses). It is shown that, for certain priors, the Bayesian posterior odds test is equivalent in large samples to classical Wald, Lagrange multiplier, and likelihood ratio tests for some significance level and vice versa. The priors considered under the alternative hypothesis are taken to shrink to the null hypothesis at rate n[superscript -1/2] as the sample size n increases. Copyright 1994 by The Econometric Society.'] [" This paper derives asymptotically optimal tests for testing problems in which a nuisance parameter exists under the alternative hypothesis but not under the null. For example, the results apply to tests of structural change with unknown changepoint. The testing problem considered is nonstandard and the classical asymptotic optimality results for the Lagrange multiplier, Wald, and likelihood ratio do not apply. A weighted average power criterion is used here to generate optimal tests. This criterion is similar to that used by A. Wald (1943) to obtain the classical asymptotic optimality properties of Wald tests in 'regular' testing problems. Copyright 1994 by The Econometric Society."] [' This paper provides a general framework for proving the "square root of" T-consistency and asymptotic normality of a wide variety of semiparametric estimators. The class of estimators considered consists of estimators that can be defined as the solution to a minimization problem based on a criterion function that may depend on a preliminary infinite dimensional nuisance parameter estimator. The method of proof exploits results concerning the stochastic equicontinuity of stochastic processes. The results are applied to the problem of semiparametric weighted least squares estimation of partially parametric regression models. Primitive conditions are given for "square root of" T-consistency and asymptotic normality of this estimator. Copyright 1994 by The Econometric Society.'] [' This paper introduces approximately median-unbiased estimators and confidence intervals for univariate AR(p) models with time trends. The methods are applied to the Nelson-Plosser macroeconomic data series, the extended Nelson-Plosser series, and some annual stock dividend and price series. The results show that most of the series exhibit substantially greater persistence than least squares estimates and some Bayesian estimates suggest. For example, for the extended Nelson-Plosser data, eight of the fourteen series are estimated to have a unit root, while six are estimated to be trend stationary. In contrast, the least squares estimates indicate trend stationarity for all of the series.'] [' First-order autoregressive/unit root models with independent identically distributed normal errors are considered, including those without an intercept, those with an intercept, and those with an intercept and time trend. The autoregressive parameter is allowed to lie in the interval (-1, 1], which includes the unit root case. Exactly median-unbiased estimators and exact confidence intervals of the autoregressive parameter are introduced. Corresponding exactly median-unbiased estimators and exact confidence intervals are also provided for the impulse response function, the cumulative impulse response, and the half life of a unit shock. An unbiased model selection procedure is discussed. The introduced procedures are applied to several data series. Copyright 1993 by The Econometric Society.'] ['This paper provides a general framework for constructing specification tests for parametric and semiparametric models. The paper develops new specification tests using the general framework. In particular, specification tests for semiparametric partially linear regression, sample selection, and censored regression models are introduced. The results apply in time series and cross-sectional contexts. The method of proof exploits results concerning the stochastic equicontinuity or weak convergence of normalized sums of stochastic processes.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper considers tests for parameter instability and structural change with unknown change point. The results apply to a wide class of parametric models that are suitable for estimation by generalized method of moments procedures. The asymptotic distributions of the test statistics considered here are nonstandard because the change point parameter only appears under the alternative hypothesis and not under the null. The tests considered here are shown to have nontrivial asymptotic local power against all alternatives for which the parameters are nonconstant. The tests are found to perform quite well in a Monte Carlo experiment reported elsewhere. Copyright 1993 by The Econometric Society.'] ['This paper considers a new class of heteroskedasticity and autocorrelation consistent (HAC) covariance matrix estimators. The estimators considered are prewhitened kernel estimators with vector autoregressions employed in the prewhitening stage. The paper establishes consistency, rate of convergence, and asymptotic truncated mean squared error (MSE) results for the estimators when a fixed or automatic bandwidth procedure is employed. Conditions are obtained under which prewhitening improves asymptotic truncated MSE. Monte Carlo results show that prewhitening is very effective in reducing bias, improving confidence interval coverage probabilities, and rescuing over-rejection of t-statistics constructed using kernel-HAC estimators. On the other hand, prewhitening is found to inflate variance and MSE of the kernel estimators. Since confidence interval coverage probabilities and over-rejection of t-statistics are usually of primary concern, prewhitened kernel estimators provide a significant improvement over the standard non-prewhitened kernel estimators.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper considers the use of the polynomial distributed lag (PDL) technique when the lag length is estimated rather than fixed. We focus on the case where the degree of the polynomial is fixed, the polynomial is constrained to be zero at a certain lag length q, and q is estimated along with the other parameters. We extend the traditional PDL setup by allowing q to be real-valued rather than integer-valued, and we derive the asymptotic covariance matrix of all the parameter estimates, including the estimate of q. The paper also considers the estimation of distributed leads rather than lags, a case that can arise if expectations are assumed to be rational.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper presents several generic uniform convergence results that include generic uniform laws of large numbers. These results provide conditions under which pointwise convergence almost surely or in probability can be strengthened to uniform convergence. The results are useful for establishing asymptotic properties of estimators and test statistics.'] [' Perron (1989) has carried out tests of the unit root hypothesis against the alternative hypothesis of trend stationarity with a break in the trend occurring at the Great Crash of 1929 or at the 1973 oil price shock. Here a variation of Perron\'s test is considered in which the break point is estimated rather than fixed. The asymptotic distribution of the "estimated break point" test statistic is determined and the data considered by Perron are reanalyzed. The authors find less evidence against the unit root hypothesis than Perron finds for many of the data series, but stronger evidence against it for several of the series.'] ['This paper establishes a central limit theorem (CLT) for empirical processes indexed by smooth functions. The underlying random variables may be temporally dependent and non-identically distributed. In particular, the CLT holds for near epoch dependent (i.e., functions of mixing processes) triangular arrays, which include strong mixing arrays, among others. The results apply to classes of functions that have series expansions. The proof of the CLT is particularly simple; no chaining argument is required. The results can be used to establish the asymptotic normality of semiparametric estimators in time series contexts. An example is provided.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper establishes the asymptotic normality of series estimators for nonparametric regression models. Gallant's Fourier flexible form estimators, trigonometric series estimators, and polynomial series estimators are prime examples of the estimators covered by the results. The results apply to a wide variety of estimates in the regression model under consideration, including derivatives and integrals of the regression function. The errors in the model may be homoskedastic or heteroskedastic. The paper also considers series estimators for additive interactive regression, semiparametric regression, and semiparametric index regression models, and shows them to be consistent and asymptotically normal. Copyright 1991 by The Econometric Society."] [' This paper is concerned with the estimation of covariance matrices in the presence of heteroskedasticity and autocorrelation of unknown forms. Currently available estimators that are designed for this context depend upon the choice of a lag truncation parameter and a weighting scheme. No results are available regarding the choice of lag truncation parameter for a fixed sample size, regarding data-dependent automatic lag truncation parameters, or regarding the choice of weighting scheme. This paper addresses these problems. Asymptotically optimal kernel/weighting scheme and bandwidth/lag truncation parameters are obtained. Using these results, data-dependent automatic bandwidth/lag truncation parameters are introduced. Copyright 1991 by The Econometric Society.'] ['This paper considers series estimators of additive interactive regression (AIR) models. AIR models are nonparametric regression models that generalize additive regression models by allowing interactions between different regressor variables. They place more restrictions on the regression function, however, than do fully nonparametric regression models. By doing so, they attempt to circumvent the curse of dimensionality that afflicts the estimation of fully non-parametric regression models.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper is concerned with the use of power properties of tests in econometric applications. Inverse power functions are defined. These functions are designed to yield summary measures of power that facilitate the interpretation of test results in practice. Simple approximations are introduced for the inverse power functions of Wald, likelihood ratio, Lagrange multiplier, and Hausman tests. These approximations readily convey the general qualitative features of the power of a test. Examples are provided to illustrate their usefulness in interpreting test results. Copyright 1989 by The Econometric Society.'] [' This paper extends the Pearson chi-square testing method to nondynam ic parametric econometric models, in particular, to models with covar iates. The paper establishes the asymptotic distribution of the test statistic when the test statistic is based on data-dependent random cells of a general form and on an arbitrary asymptotically normal estimator. These results a re attained by extending recent probabilistic results for the weak convergence of empirical processes indexed by sets. The chi-square test that is introduced can be used to test goodness-of-fit of a parametric model, as well as to test particular aspects of the parametric model that are of interest. Copyright 1988 by The Econometric Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper provides L 1 and weak laws of large numbers for uniformly integrable L 1-mixingales. The L 1-mixingale condition is a condition of asymptotic weak temporal dependence that is weaker than most conditions considered in the literature. Processes covered by the laws of large numbers include martingale difference, \xc3\xb8(\xc2\xb7), \xcf\x81(\xc2\xb7), and \xce\xb1(\xc2\xb7) mixing, autoregressive moving average, infinite-order moving average, near epoch dependent, L 1-near epoch dependent, and mixingale sequences and triangular arrays. The random variables need not possess more than one finite moment and the L 1-mixingale numbers need not decay to zero at any particular rate. The proof of the results is remarkably simple and completely self-contained.'] [' This paper extends the classical test for structural change in line ar regression models (see Chow\\1960\\) to a wide variety of nonlinear models, estimated by a variety of different procedures. Wald, Lagran ge multiplier-like, and likelihood ratio-like test statistics are int roduced. The results allow for heterogeneity and temporal dependence of the observations. In the process of developing the above tests, the paper also provides a compact presentation of general unifying results for estimation and testing in nonlinear parametric econometric models. Copyright 1988 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] ['This paper establishes consistency of least squares estimators in (i) a multiple regression model with integrated regressors and explosive, non-mixing errors, and (ii) a dynamic linear regression model with regressors and errors that may have infinite variances. In the former context, the asymptotic distribution of the least squares estimator also is obtained, in certain cases.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper presents conditions under which a quadratic form based on a g- inverted weighting matrix converges to a chi-square distribution as the sample size goes to infinity. Subject to fairly weak underlying conditions, a necessary and sufficient condition is given for this result. The result is of interest because it is needed to establish asymptotic significance levels and local power properties of generalized Wald tests (i.e., Wald tests with singular limiting covariance matrices). Included in this class of tests are Hausman specification tests and various goodness-of-fit tests, among others. The necessary and sufficient condition is relevant to procedures currently in the econometrics literature because it illustrates that some results stated in the literature only hold under more restrictive assumptions than those given.'] ['This note presents a set of conditions on the defining functions of regression parameter estimators of the linear model. These conditions guarantee that the estimators are symmetrically distributed about the true parameter value, and hence are median unbiased, provided the conditional distribution of the vector of errors is symmetric given the matrix of regressors. The symmetry result holds even if the regression parameters are subject to linear restrictions. If the estimators posses one or more moments, then the symmetry result also implies mean unbiasedness. Similar conditions are provided that establish the property of origin (or shift) equivariance for the estimators. Common feasible GLS, quasi-ML, robust, adaptive, and spectral estimators are seen easily to satisfy the requisite conditions.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["The least squares estimator for the linear regression model is shown to converge to the true parameter vector either with probability one or with probability zero. In the latter case, it either converges to a point not equal to the true parameter with probability one, or it diverges with probability one. These results are shown to hold under weak conditions on the dependent random variable and regressor variables. No additional conditions are placed on the errors. The dependent and regressor variables are assumed to be weakly dependent\xe2\x80\x94in particular, to be strong mixing. The regressors may be fixed or random and must exhibit a certain degree of independent variability. No further assumptions are needed. The model considered allows the number of regressors to increase without bound as the sample size increases. The proof proceeds by extending Kolmogorov's 0-1 law for independent randomvariables to strong mixing random variables."]