 [' The purpose of this paper is to review newly developed identification and estimation tools that are relevant for the analysis of dynamic dependence structures of income risk. I present an application to nonlinear permanent\xe2\x80\x93transitory models of household income using data from the Panel Study of Income Dynamics (PSID), but the empirical approach is more generally applicable. Household income processes are of interest because the size of shocks, the nature of their persistence, and cross-household heterogeneity are all important to understand how income inequality varies with age and cohort and how it translates into consumption inequality. I argue that going from an econometrics of autocovariances to an econometrics of flexible distributions is feasible and has the potential to reveal richer aspects of risk\xe2\x80\x94for example, nonlinear persistence of unusual shocks.'] ['We develop methods for testing that an econometric model is underidentified and for estimating the nature of the failed identification. We adopt a generalized-method-of moments perspective in a possibly non-linear econometric specification. If, after attempting to replicate the structural relation, we find substantial evidence against the overidentifying restrictions of an augmented model, this is evidence against underidentification of the original model. To diagnose how identification might fail, we study the estimation of a one-dimensional curve that gives the parameter configurations that provide the greatest challenge to identification, and we illustrate this calculation in an empirical example.'] [" We study the identification of panel models with linear individual-specific coefficients when T is fixed. We show identification of the variance of the effects under conditional uncorrelatedness. Identification requires restricted dependence of errors, reflecting a trade-off between heterogeneity and error dynamics. We show identification of the probability distribution of individual effects when errors follow an Autoregressive Moving Average process under conditional independence. We discuss Generalized Method of Moments estimation of moments of effects and errors and construct non-parametric estimators of their densities. As an application, we estimate the effect that a mother smoking during pregnancy has on her child's birth weight. Copyright , Oxford University Press."] ['Nonlinear panel data models arise naturally in economic applications, yet their analysis is challenging. Here we provide a progress report on some recent advances in the area. We start by reviewing the properties of random-effects likelihood approaches. We emphasize a link with Bayesian computation and Markov chain Monte Carlo, which provides a convenient approach to estimation and inference. The relaxation of parametric assumptions on the distribution of individual effects raises serious identification problems. In discrete choice models, common parameters and average marginal effects are generally set identified. The availability of continuous outcomes, however, provides opportunities for point identification. We end by reviewing recent progress on non-fixed-T approaches. In panel applications in which the time dimension is not negligible relative to the size of the cross section, it makes sense to view the estimation problem as a time-series finite-sample bias. Several perspectives to bias reduction are now available. We review their properties, with a special emphasis on random-effects methods.'] [' Many approaches to estimation of panel models are based on an average or integrated likelihood that assigns weights to different values of the individual effects. Fixed effects, random effects, and Bayesian approaches all fall into this category. We provide a characterization of the class of weights (or priors) that produce estimators that are first-order unbiased. We show that such bias-reducing weights will depend on the data in general unless an orthogonal reparameterization or an essentially equivalent condition is available. Two intuitively appealing weighting schemes are discussed. We argue that asymptotically valid confidence intervals can be read from the posterior distribution of the common parameters when N and T grow at the same rate. Next, we show that random effects estimators are not bias reducing in general and we discuss important exceptions. Moreover, the bias depends on the Kullback-Leibler distance between the population distribution of the effects and its best approximation in the random effects family. Finally, we show that, in general, standard random effects estimation of marginal effects is inconsistent for large T, whereas the posterior mean of the marginal effect is large-T consistent, and we provide conditions for bias reduction. Some examples and Monte Carlo experiments illustrate the results. Copyright 2009 The Econometric Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In this paper we present a class of binary choice models for panel data with the following features : (i) The explanatory variables are predetermined but not strictly exogenous. (ii) Individual effects are allowed to be correlated with the explanatory variables.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' In this paper we derive the asymptotic properties of within groups (WG), GMM, and LIML estimators for an autoregressive model with random effects when both T and N tend to infinity. GMM and LIML are consistent and asymptotically equivalent to the WG estimator. When T/N\xe2\x86\x92 0 the fixed T results for GMM and LIML remain valid, but WG, although consistent, has an asymptotic bias in its asymptotic distribution. When T/N tends to a positive constant, the WG, GMM, and LIML estimators exhibit negative asymptotic biases of order 1/T, 1/N, and 1/(2N - T), respectively. In addition, the crude GMM estimator that neglects the autocorrelation in first differenced errors is inconsistent as T/N\xe2\x86\x92c&gt;0, despite being consistent for fixed T. Finally, we discuss the properties of a random effects pseudo MLE with unrestricted initial conditions when both T and N tend to infinity. Copyright The Econometric Society 2003.'] ['This paper reviews the existing approaches to deal with panel data binary choice models with individual effects. Their relative strengths and weaknesses are discussed. Much theoretical and empirical research is needed in this area, and the paper points to several aspects that deserve further investigation. In particular, I illustrate the usefulness of asymptotic arguments in providing both approximately unbiased moment conditions, and approximations to sampling distributions for panels of different sample sizes. (Copyright: Fundaci\xc3\xb3n SEPI)'] ["We investigate the determinants of the remarkable increase in intra-regional migrations since the 1980's in Spain, using a large administrative micro dataset on migrants. Conditional migration probabilities are identified by comparing the migrants' joint distribution of characteristics to the corresponding distribution from the Spanish Labour Force Survey. The proportion of employment in the service industry, unemployment, house prices and education, all have an important positive effect on the individual probabilities of intra-regional migration."] [' In this paper we study the effects of unemployment benefit duration and the business cycle on unemployment duration. We construct durations for individuals entering unemployment from a longitudinal sample of Spanish men in 1987--94. Estimated discrete hazard models indicate that receipt of unemployment benefits significantly reduces the hazard of leaving unemployment. At durations of three months, when the largest effects occur, the hazard for workers without benefits is twice as large as that for workers with benefits. Favourable business conditions increase the hazard of leaving unemployment. At sample-period magnitudes, this effect is significantly smaller than that of benefit receipt. Copyright 2002 Royal Economic Society'] [" This article surveys J. D. Sargan's work on instrumental variables (IV) estimation and its connections with the generalized method of moments (GMM). First the modeling context in which Sargan motivated IV estimation is presented. Then the theory of IV estimation as developed by Sargan is discussed. His approach to efficiency, his minimax estimator, tests of overidentification and underidentification, and his later work on the finite-sample properties of IV estimators are reviewed. Next, his approach to modeling IV equations with serial correlation is discussed and compared with the GMM approach. Finally, Sargan's results for nonlinear-in-parameters IV models are described."] [' The authors discuss the estimation of linear panel-data models with sequential moment restrictions using symmetrically normalized generalized method of moments (SNM) estimators and limited information maximum likelihood (LIML) analogues. These estimators are asymptotically equivalent to standard generalized method of moments (GMM) estimators but are invariant to normalization and tend to have a smaller finite-sample bias, especially when the instruments are poor. The authors study their properties in relation to ordinary GMM and minimum distance estimators for AR(l) models with individual effects by mean of simulations. Finally, as empirical illustrations, they estimate by SNM and LIML employment and wage equations using panels of U.K. and Spanish firms.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This article develops a framework for efficient IV estimators of random effects models with information in levels which can accommodate predetermined variables. Our formulation clarifies the relationship between the existing estimators and the role of transformation in panel data models. We characterise the valid transformations for relevant models and show the optimal estimators are invariant to the transformation used to remove individual effects. We present an alternative transformation for models with predetermined instruments which preserves the orthogonality among the errors. Finally, we consider models with predetermined variables that have constant correlation with effects and illustrate their importance with simulations.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The authors develop an empirical model of labor supply that is consistent with on-the-job search and that is identified and estimated by combining two data sets: the U.K. Family Expenditure Survey, which contains information on income and expenditure, and the U.K. Labour Force Survey, which has data on hours and job search behavior. They provide statistical evidence on the compatibility of the two samples for the purposes of estimating their model. The authors find that search has a direct negative effect on hours of work and they establish a strong positive effect of wages on hours. Copyright 1992 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] [" This paper presents specification tests that are applicable after estimating a dynamic model from panel data by the generalized method of moments, and studies the practical performance of these procedures using both generated and real data. The authors' generalized method of moments estimator optimally exploits all the linear moment restrictions that follow from the assumption of no serial correlation in the errors in an equation which contains individual effects, lagged dependent variables, and no strictly exogenous variables. They propose a test of serial correlation based on the generalized method of moments residuals and compare this with Sargan tests of over-identifying restrictions and Hausman specification tests. Copyright 1991 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This article develops new approximations to the distribution function of a general econometric estimator or test statistic from a linear model. The method relies heavily on the general arguments for the validity of Edgeworth approximations, and produces formulae of a similar type, except that, instead of using the cumulative normal distribution, an Imhof distribution is used derived from the exact distribution of a linear combination of the sample data second moments. On theoretical grounds, this might be expected to give better approximations for some estimators. In practice, comparisons were made between computed approximations of both types for several simple cases. Copyright 1990 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] [' This article develops tests of covariance restrictions after estimating by three-stage least squares a dynamic random effects model from panel data. The asymptotic distribution of covariance matrix estimates under nonnormality is obtained. It is shown how minimum chi-square tests for interesting covariance restrictions can be calculated from a generalized linear regression involving the sample autocovariances and dummy variables. Asymptotic efficiency exploiting covariance restrictions can also be attained using a generalized least squares estimator. Copyright 1990 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The purpose of this note is to explain how to use standard packages to calculate heteroskedasticity and serial c orrelation consistent standard errors for within-groups estimators of a linear regression model from panel data. The within-groups estimat or is calculated as the least squares estimator in a transformed mult ivariate regression with cross-equation linear restrictions. The Whit e standard errors obtained in this way are the desired ones. Copyright 1987 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd']