 [' This study investigated pre- to post-disaster changes in happiness of 491 women affected by Hurricane Katrina, and identified factors that were associated with the survivors\xe2\x80\x99 happiness after the storm. Participants completed surveys approximately 1 year before and 1 and 4 years after the storm. The surveys collected information on the women\xe2\x80\x99s happiness, social support, household characteristics, and hurricane exposure. We found that happiness significantly decreased from pre-disaster to 1 year post-disaster but there were no significant differences in happiness between the pre-disaster and 4 years post-disaster assessments. An exception were 38 women who continued to have lower levels of happiness 4 years post-disaster than at pre-disaster. These women were more likely to be living on their own after the storm and reported consistently lower levels of perceived social support from the community both before and after the storm than the other women of the sample. Factors associated with the survivor\xe2\x80\x99s happiness after the storm included exposure to hurricane stressors and losing a loved one to the hurricane. These were predictive of lower happiness 1 year post-disaster. Four years after the hurricane only exposure to hurricane stressors was predictive of lower levels of happiness. In contrast, pre-disaster happiness and post-disaster social support were protective against the negative effect of the hurricane on survivors\xe2\x80\x99 happiness. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2015'] ['This index does not appear in the print version of the Stata Journal.'] ["In this paper we re-examine commercial banks' lending behavior taking into account changes in the stance of monetary policy in conjunction with changes in financial sector uncertainty. Using a very large data set covering all banks in the US between 1986-2000, we show that financial uncertainty has an important and significant role in the monetary policy transmission mechanism that varies across bank categories and the strength of banks' balance sheets. We find support for the existence of a bank lending channel among US banks.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["The paper explores factors that lead to accumulation or decumulation of firms' cash reserves. In particular, we empirically examine whether additional future fixed capital and R&amp;D; investment expenditures induce firms to change their liquidity ratio while considering the role of market imperfections. Implementing a dynamic framework on a panel of US, UK and German firms, we find that firms in all three countries make larger adjustments to cash holdings when they plan additional future R&amp;D; rather than fixed capital investment expenditures. This behavior is particularly prevalent among financially constrained firms.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' We find that US corporations\xe2\x80\x99 demand for liquidity is sensitive to two important factors: uncertainty facing the firm and the quality of corporate governance. Following prior research, we find that both factors have important influences on firms\xe2\x80\x99 cash holdings. Our results also indicate that the interactions between uncertainty and governance measures are significant. From a policy perspective, these new findings indicate that both governance and the nature of uncertainty may play an important role in managing liquidity risks. Policy recommendations may not only be limited to changes in financial policy but may also include changes in corporate governance.'] ["We estimate firms' cash flow sensitivity of cash to empirically test how the financial system's structure and level of development influence their financial constraints. For this purpose we merge Almeida et\xc3\x82 al.'s work, a path-breaking design for evaluating a firm's financial constraints, with that of Levine, who paved the way for comparative analysis of financial systems around the world. We conjecture that a country's financial system, both in terms of its structure and its level of development, should influence the cash flow sensitivity of cash of constrained firms but leave unconstrained firms unaffected. We test our hypothesis with a large international sample of 30,000 firm-years from 1989 to 2006. Our findings reveal that both the structure of the financial system and its level of development matter. Bank-based financial systems provide constrained firms with easier access to external financing."] ['Past research on the associations between area-level/contextual social capital and health has produced conflicting evidence. However, interpreting this rapidly growing literature is difficult because estimates using conventional regression are prone to major sources of bias including residual confounding and reverse causation. Instrumental variable (IV) analysis can reduce such bias. Using data on up to 167 344 adults in 64 nations in the European and World Values Surveys and applying IV and ordinary least squares (OLS) regression, we estimated the contextual effects of country-level social trust on individual self-rated health. We further explored whether these associations varied by gender and individual levels of trust. Using OLS regression, we found higher average country-level trust to be associated with better self-rated health in both women and men. Instrumental variable analysis yielded qualitatively similar results, although the estimates were more than double in size in both sexes when country population density and corruption were used as instruments. The estimated health effects of raising the percentage of a country\xe2\x80\x99s population that trusts others by 10 percentage points were at least as large as the estimated health effects of an individual developing trust in others. These findings were robust to alternative model specifications and instruments. Conventional regression and to a lesser extent IV analysis suggested that these associations are more salient in women and in women reporting social trust. In a large cross-national study, our findings, including those using instrumental variables, support the presence of beneficial effects of higher country-level trust on self-rated health. Previous findings for contextual social capital using traditional regression may have underestimated the true associations. Given the close linkages between self-rated health and all-cause mortality, the public health gains from raising social capital within and across countries may be large.'] ['We review the Stata statistical package and evaluate its suitability for applied research.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["We investigate the impact of debt on a panel of U.S. manufacturing firms' capital investment behavior as the underlying firm-specific and market-level uncertainty changes. Our estimates show that the influence of leverage on capital investment may be stimulating or mitigating depending on the effects of uncertainty."] ["This paper analyzes the effects of parliamentary election cycles on the Turkish banking system. Using annual bank-level data representing all banks in Turkey during 1963-2007, we present evidence of meaningful differences in the structure of bank assets, liabilities and financial performance across different stages of the parliamentary election cycle. However, we find that government-owned banks' behavior does not meaningfully differ from that of either domestic and foreign-owned private-sector banks before, during or after elections. Our estimates also show that government-owned banks underperform both domestic and foreign-owned private-sector counterparts."] [" We investigate the analytical and empirical linkages between cash flow, uncertainty, and firms' capital investment behavior. Our empirical approach constructs measures of own- and market-specific uncertainty from firms' daily stock returns and S&amp;P; 500 index returns along with a CAPM-based risk measure. Our results indicate that even in the presence of important firm-specific variables, uncertainty is an important determinant of firms' investment behavior. Depending on the measure of uncertainty used, investment may be stimulated or curtailed by the effects of uncertainty on its own or through its interactions on cash flow. Copyright 2010 Oxford University Press 2009 All rights reserved, Oxford University Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" We investigate the relationship between a firm's measures of corporate governance, macroeconomic uncertainty and changes in leverage. Recent research highlights the role of governance in financing decisions. Previous research also indicates that macroeconomic uncertainty affects a firm's ability to borrow. In this paper we investigate how both these channels of influence affects firms' financing decisions. Our findings show that macroeconomic uncertainty has an important role to play, both by itself and in interaction with a measure of corporate governance. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2009 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd."] [" This article empirically investigates the impact of macroeconomic uncertainty on the spreads of individual firms' Credit Default Swaps (CDSs). While the existing literature acknowledges the importance of the levels of macroeconomic factors in determining CDS spreads, we find that the second moments of these factors-macroeconomic uncertainty-have significant explanatory power over and above that of traditional macroeconomic factors such as the risk-free rate and the Treasury term spread."] ["We present an empirical investigation of the hypotheses that exchange rate uncertainty may have an impact on both the volume and variability of trade flows by considering a broad set of industrial countries' bilateral real trade flows over the period 1980-1998. Similar to the findings of earlier theoretical and empirical research, our first set of results shows that the impact of exchange rate uncertainty on trade flows is indeterminate. Our second set of results provides new and novel findings that exchange rate uncertainty has a consistent positive and significant effect on the volatility of bilateral trade flows, helping us better understand macroeconomic volatility."] [' "This paper investigates the link between the optimal level of nonfinancial firms\' short-term leverage and macroeconomic and idiosyncratic sources of uncertainty. We develop a structural model of a firm\'s value maximization problem that predicts a negative relationship between uncertainty and optimal levels of borrowing. This proposition is tested using a panel of nonfinancial U.S. firms drawn from the COMPUSTAT quarterly database covering the period 1993-2003. The estimates confirm that as either form of uncertainty increases, firms decrease their levels of short-term leverage. This effect is stronger for macroeconomic uncertainty than for idiosyncratic uncertainty. " Copyright (c) 2008 Western Economic Association International.'] ["This paper investigates how variations in macroeconomic uncertainty distort commercial banks' allocation of loanable funds by analyzing the dispersion of banks' total loan-to-asset ratios over a quarter-century period."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper investigates the link between the optimal level of non-financial firms' liquid assets and uncertainty. We develop a partial equilibrium model of precautionary demand for liquid assets showing that firms alter their liquidity ratio in response to changes in either macroeconomic or idiosyncratic uncertainty. We test this hypothesis using a panel of non-financial US firms drawn from the COMPUSTAT quarterly database covering the period 1993-2002. The results indicate that firms increase their liquidity ratios when macroeconomic uncertainty or idiosyncratic uncertainty increases."] ["We investigate the impact of measures of uncertainty on firms' capital investment behavior using a panel of U.S. firms. Increases in firm-specific and CAPM-based measures have a significant negative effect on investment spending, while market-based uncertainty has a positive impact."] [" This paper empirically investigates the link between political patronage and bank performance for Ukraine during 2003Q3-2005Q2. We find significant differences between politically affiliated and non-affiliated banks. The data suggest that affiliated banks have significantly lower interest rate margins and increase their capitalization. Furthermore, we show that the level of activity of affiliated deputies in parliament has a positive (negative) impact on banks' capitalization ratio (interest rate margin). Our findings imply, in line with the related literature, that political affiliation has important effects on banks' behaviour. Copyright (c) 2008 The Authors. Journal compilation (c) 2008 The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["We extend our 2003 paper on instrumental variables and generalized method of moments estimation, and we test and describe enhanced routines that address heteroskedasticity- and autocorrelation-consistent standard errors, weak instruments, limited-information maximum likelihood and k-class estimation, tests for endogeneity and Ramsey's regression specification-error test, and autocorrelation tests for instrumental variable estimates and panel-data instrumental variable estimates. Copyright 2007 by StataCorp LP."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Verflechtungen zwischen Banken und Politikern werden hier am Beispiel ukrainischer Gesch\xc3\xa4ftsbanken analysiert. Es zeigt sich, dass die "N\xc3\xa4he zur Politik" tendenziell einen d\xc3\xa4mpfenden Effekt auf die Entwicklung der Zinsmargen und einen positiven Effekt auf die Ver\xc3\xa4nderung der Eigenkapitalquote der Banken hat. Bei der immer noch vergleichsweise niedrigen Kapitalisierung "politik- naher" Banken - sie liegt weit unter dem Niveau unabh\xc3\xa4ngiger Banken - kann dieser Befund auch mit dem vermehrten Eintritt ausl\xc3\xa4ndischer Banken in den ukrainischen Markt zu tun haben. Es gibt Hinweise darauf, dass ausl\xc3\xa4ndische Investoren vor allem an politiknahen Banken interessiert sind. Wird die niedrige Eigenkapitalquote aber von ausl\xc3\xa4ndischen Investoren als Hindernis empfunden, erw\xc3\xa4chst f\xc3\xbcr diesen Bankentyp m\xc3\xb6glicherweise ein starker Anreiz, die Eigenkapitaldecke zu erh\xc3\xb6hen, um sich f\xc3\xbcr \xc3\x9cbernahmen attraktiv zu machen.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['A number of previous studies have questioned the dominant role of Germany within the European Monetary System (EMS). These conclusions are often based on empirical findings that the interest rates of EMS member countries are not affected by German interest rates, even in the long run. In this study, we demonstrate that intra-EMS interest rate differentials (vis-a-vis Germany) exhibit mean-reverting behavior characterized by long-memory dynamics. In a system incorporating six EMS countries and one non-EMS country (the U.S.A.), estimates from a fractional error correction model suggest the presence of short-run intra-EMS monetary-policy interdependencies but validate the German Dominance Hypothesis in the long run.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper empirically investigates whether changes in macroeconomic volatility affect the efficient allocation of non-financial firms' liquid assets. We argue that higher uncertainty will hamper managers' ability to accurately predict firm-specific information and induce them to implement similar cash management policies. Contrarily, when the macroeconomic environment becomes more tranquil, each manager will have the latitude to behave more idiosyncratically as she can adjust liquid assets based on the specific requirements of the firm, bringing about a more efficient allocation of liquid assets. Our empirical analysis provides support for these predictions.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [" Several studies have tested for long-range dependence in macroeconomic and financial time series but very few have assessed the usefulness of long-memory models as forecast-generating mechanisms. This study tests for fractional differencing in the US monetary indices (simple sum and divisia) and compares the out-of-sample fractional forecasts to benchmark forecasts. The long-memory parameter is estimated using Robinson's Gaussian semi-parametric and multivariate log-periodogram methods. The evidence amply suggests that the monetary series possess a fractional order between one and two. Fractional out-of-sample forecasts are consistently more accurate (with the exception of the M3 series) than benchmark autoregressive forecasts but the forecasting gains are not generally statistically significant. In terms of forecast encompassing, the fractional model encompasses the autoregressive model for the divisia series but neither model encompasses the other for the simple sum series.\xe2\x80\x89\xe2\x80\x89Copyright \xc3\x82\xc2\xa9 2006 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd."] ['This paper discusses the use of Stata for the analysis of time series and panel data. The evolution of time-series capabilities in Stata is reviewed. Facilities for data management, graphics, and econometric analysis from both official Stata and the user community are discussed. A new routine to provide moving-window regression estimates\xe2\x80\x94rollreg\xe2\x80\x94is described, and its use illustrated. Copyright 2005 by StataCorp LP.'] ['This paper is a review of the statistical package Stata, version 8.1, with special emphasis on its time series capabilities. The program which generates empirical results and graphics in the paper may also be downloaded.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" In this paper, we investigate empirically the impact of exchange rate volatility on real international trade flows utilizing a 13-country data set of monthly bilateral real exports for 1980-1998. We compute one-month-ahead exchange rate volatility from the intra-monthly variations in the exchange rate to better quantify this latent variable. We find that the effect of exchange rate volatility on trade flows is nonlinear, depending on its interaction with the importing country's volatility of economic activity, and that it varies considerably over the set of country pairs considered. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2003 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd."] ['In this paper, employing VAR and factor analytic models with quarterly U.K. sectoral business investment data, we show that both common and sector-specific shocks play important roles in explaining business investment fluctuations.'] ['A plausible explanation for cointegration among spot currency rates determined in efficient markets is the existence of a stationary, time-varying currency risk premium. Such an interpretation is contingent upon stationarity of the forward premium. However, empirical evidence on the stochastic properties of the forward premium series has been inconclusive. We apply a panel unit-root test--the Johansen likelihood ratio (JLR) test--to forward exchange premiums by utilizing cross-sectional information from their term structure. In contrast to earlier studies, the JLR test provides decisive and temporally stable evidence in support of stationary forward premiums, and therefore foreign exchange market efficiency, for six major currencies.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['We discuss instrumental variables (IV) estimation in the broader context of the generalized method of moments (GMM), and describe an extended IV estimation routine that provides GMM estimates as well as additional diagnostic tests. Stand-alone test procedures for heteroskedasticity, overidentification, and endogeneity in the IV context are also described. Copyright 2003 by Stata Corporation.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper investigates the effects of exchange rate uncertainty on the volume and variability of trade flows. Employing a signal extraction framework, we show that the direction and magnitude of importers' and exporters' optimal trading activities depend upon the source of the uncertainty (general economic shocks, fundamental factors driving the exchange rate process, or noise in the signal of policy innovations), providing a rationale for the contradictory empirical evidence in the literature. We also show that exchange rate uncertainty emanating from general economic shocks and the fundamental factors reduces the variability of trade flows, while that related to noise in the signal of policy innovations increases variability.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['These routines support the diagnosis of groupwise heteroskedasticity and cross-sectional correlation in the context of a regression model fit to pooled cross-section time series (xt) data. Copyright 2001 by Stata Corporation.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper models the dynamics of adjustment to long-run purchasing power parity (PPP) over the post-Bretton Woods period in a nonlinear framework consistent with the presence of frictions in international trade. We estimate exponential smooth transition autoregressive (ESTAR) models of deviations from PPP using both CPI- and WPI-based measures for a broad set of U.S. trading partners. We find clear evidence of a mean-reverting dynamic process for sizable deviations from PPP, with an equilibrium tendency varying nonlinearly with the magnitude of disequilibrium.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Does merger and acquisition (M&amp;A;) activity occur in waves, that is, are there oscillations between low and high levels of M&amp;A; activity? The answer to this question is important in developing univariate as well as structural models of explaining and forecasting the stochastic behavior of M&amp;A; activity. There is evidence to suggest that aggregate U.S. time-series data on merger and acquisition (M&amp;A;) activity exhibit a "wave" behavior, which has been modeled by fitting either a two-state Markov switching-regime model or a sine-wave model to the data. This study provides an alternative characterization of the temporal patterns in M&amp;A; as a nonlinear process with strongly persistent or long-memory dynamics. The apparent level changes or partial cycles of differing magnitudes in aggregate M&amp;A; time series are consistent with an underlying data generating process exhibiting long memory. Time- and frequency-domain estimation methods are applied to a long M&amp;A; time series constructed by Town (1992), covering approximately a century of merger activity in the U.S. economy. We find significant evidence of long-term cyclical behavior, nonperiodic in nature, in the M&amp;A; time series, even after accounting for potential shifts in the mean level of the series. A shock to M&amp;A; activity exhibits significant persistence as it is damped at the very slow hyperbolic rate, but it eventually dissipates. We provide both theoretical and empirical rationales for the presence of fractional dynamics with long-memory features in M&amp;A; activity. Theoretically, long-term dependence may be due to persistent differences in firm valuation between stockholders and nonstockholders following an "economic disturbance," as suggested by Gort (1969). Empirically, long-memory dynamics in M&amp;A; activity may reflect the statistical properties of fundamental factors underlying its behavior, as several of the proposed determinants of M&amp;A; activity have been shown to exhibit strong persistence.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper investigates the effects of permanent and transitory components of the exchange rate on firms' profitability under imperfect information. Utilizing a signal extraction framework, we show that the variances of these components of the exchange rate process will have indeterminate effects on the firm's growth rate of profits, but will have predictable effects on its volatility. An increase in the variance of the permanent (transitory) component in the exchange rate process leads to greater (lesser) variability in the growth rate of the firm's profits, thus establishing that the source of exchange rate volatility matters in analyzing its effects. Implications of our theoretical findings for the empirical modeling of the underlying relationships are discussed.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Tests are made of the stochastic long memory in the Greek stock market, an emerging capital market. The fractional differencing parameter is estimated using the spectral regression method. Contrary to findings for major capital markets, significant and robust evidence of positive long-term persistence is found in the Greek stock market. As compared to benchmark linear models, the estimated fractional models provide improved out-of-sample forecasting accuracy for the Greek stock returns series over longer forecasting horizons.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We test for fractional dynamics in inflation rates based on the consumer price index (CPI) for 27 countries and inflation rates based on the wholesale price index (WPI) for 22 countries. The fractional differencing parameter is estimated using semiparametric and approximate maximum likelihood methods. Significant evidence of fractional dynamics with long-memory features is found in both CPI- and WPI-based inflation rates for industrial as well as developing countries. Implications of the findings are considered, and sources of long memory are hypothesized.'] ['This paper considers two potential rationales for the apparent absence of mean reversion in real exchange rates in the post-Bretton Woods era. We allow for (i) fractional integration and (ii) a double mean shift in the real exchange rate process. These methods, applied to CPI-based rates for 17 countries and WPI-based rates for 12 countries, demonstrate that the unit-root hypothesis is robust against both fractional alternatives and structural breaks. This evidence suggests rejection of the doctrine of absolute long-run purchasing power parity during the post-Bretton Woods era.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" We test for fractional dynamics in US monetary series, their various formulations and components, and velocity series. Using the spectral regression method, we find evidence of a fractional exponent in the differencing process of the monetary series (both simple-sum and Divisia indices), in their components (with the exception of demand deposits, savings deposits, overnight repurchase agreements, and term repurchase agreements), and the monetary base and money multipliers. No evidence of fractional behaviour is found in the velocity series. Granger's (Journal of Econometrics, 25, 1980) aggregation hypothesis is evaluated and implications of the presence of fractional monetary dynamics are drawn."] [' The effects of measurement and specification error on estimates of the Q and cash flow model of investment are investigated. Two sources of error are considered: expensing of R&amp;D; expenditures and failing to identify that component of cash flow which relaxes financing constraints. We apply random-effects and instrumental variables estimators to a model that addresses these sources of error. We find that: (1) the capitalization of R&amp;D; strengthens the explanatory power of the model; (2) expected and unexpected components of cash flow have different effects; and (3) the effects of Q are much more evident in firms facing low costs of external finance. Copyright 1999 by Kluwer Academic Publishers'] [' This paper reexamines whether the term structure of interest rates, rather than merely a single interest rate, should be included in the demand for money of the interwar era. In contrast to earlier work, we use cointegration techniques to model the equilibrium/error correction process, and find that a sufficiently rich dynamic model using a single interest rate has considerable explanatory power. Nevertheless, we conclude that the inclusion of the term structure may help to explain the turbulent monetary dynamics of the Depression era. Copyright Springer 1998'] [' Using spectral regression and exact maximum likelihood methods, we test for long memory dynamics in the traded goods prices for the G7 countries, as measured in their import and export price indices. Significant and robust evidence of fractional dynamics with long memory features is found in both import and export price inflation rates.'] [" We employ threshold cointegration methodology to model the policy problem solved by the Federal Reserve System in their manipulation of the discount rate under a reserves target operating procedure utilized since October 1979. The infrequent and discrete adjustments that characterize movements in the discount rate instrument vis-a-vis the Federal Funds rate do not lend themselves to a linear cointegration framework. The inherently nonlinear relationship arising from the Fed's self-imposed constraints on discontinuously changing the discount rate is satisfactorily modeled as an instance of threshold cointegration between the discount rate and the Federal Funds rate. Citation Copyright 1998 by Kluwer Academic Publishers."] ['Using the spectral regression and Gaussian semiparametric methods of estimating the long-memory parameter, we test for fractional dynamic behavior in a number of important Japanese financial time series: spot exchange rates, forward exchange rates, stock prices, currency forward premia, Euroyen deposit rates, and the Euroyen term premium. Stochastic long memory is established as a feature of the currency forward premia, Euroyen deposit rates, and Euroyen term premium series. The martingale model cannot be rejected for the spot, forward, and stock price series.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" We re-examine Sephton and Larsen's (1991) conclusion that cointegration-based tests for market efficiency suffer from temporal instability. We improve upon their research by i) including a drift term in the vector error correction model (VECM) in the Johansen procedure, ii) correcting the likelihood ratio test statistic for finite-sample bias, and iii) fitting the model over longer data sets. We show that instability of the Johansen cointegration tests mostly disappears after accounting for these two factors. The evidence is even more stable in favour of no cointegration when we apply our analysis to longer data sets"] [' Using the spectral regression method, we test for long-term stochastic memory in three- and six-month daily returns series of Eurocurrency deposits denominated in major currencies. Significant evidence of positive long-term dependence is found in several Eurocurrency returns series. Compared with benchmark linear models, the estimate fractional models result in dramatic out-of-sample forecasting improvements over longer horizons for the Eurocurrency deposits denominated in German marks, Swiss francs, and Japanese yen.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper investigates the presence of fractal dynamics in stock returns. We improve upon existing literature in two ways: i) instead of rescaled-range analysis, we use the more efficient semi- nonparametric procedure suggested by Geweke and Porter-Hudak (GPH, 1983), and ii) to ensure robustness, we apply the GPH test to a variety of aggregate and sectoral stock indices and individual companies' stock returns series at both daily and monthly frequencies. Our results indicate that fractal structure is not exhibited by stock indices, but it may characterize the behavior of some individual stock returns series.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['Significant time-varying risk premia exist in the foreign currency futures basis, and these risk premia are meaningfully correlated with common macroeconomic risk factors from equity and bond markets. The stock index dividend yield and the bond default and term spreads in the U.S. markets help forecast the risk premium component of the foreign currency futures basis. The specific source of risk matters, but the relationships are robust across currencies. The currency futures basis is positively associated with the dividend yield and negatively associated with the spread variables. These correlations cannot be attributed to the expected spot price change component of the currency futures basis, thus establishing the presence of a time-varying risk premium component in the currency futures basis.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" This paper presents the methodology used to construct reliable estimates of the term structure of interest rates for the United States during 1919-30. These monthly term structures are based on individual corporate bonds' price quotations for the majority of U.S. railroad corporations' issues of that era. J. McCulloch's (1971, 1975) cubic spline methodology, coupled with C. Nelson and A. Siegel's (1987) parsimonious estimator, is used to derive curves for three investment-grade risk classes. These estimates compare favorably with D. Durand's (1958) hand-smoothed estimates as well as earlier annual estimates generated by C. Thies (1985). They provide a consistent basis a wide range of monetary and financial research on this period. Citation Copyright 1992 by Kluwer Academic Publishers."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" A robust estimation technique--bounded-influence instrumental variables--is applied to an error-correction model formulation of a U.S. money-demand equation. The weights generated by bounded-influence instrumental variables are used to diagnose structural instability in the specification of the equations and their error processes. These techniques are shown to be valuable additions to the empirical researchers' toolkit and have been implemented in commonly-used econometric software. Copyright 1990 by Ohio State University Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']