 ['This paper derives the Best Linear Unbiased Predictor (BLUP) for a spatial nested error components panel data model. This predictor is useful for panel data applications that exhibit spatial dependence and a nested (hierarchical) structure. The predictor allows for unbalancedness in the number of observations in the nested groups. One application includes forecasting average housing prices located in a county nested in a state. When deriving the BLUP, we take into account the spatial correlation across counties, as well as the unbalancedness due to observing different numbers of counties nested in each state. Ignoring the nested spatial structure leads to inefficiency and inferior forecasts. Using Monte Carlo simulations, we show that our feasible predictor is better in root mean square error performance than the usual fixed and random effects panel predictors which ignore the spatial nested structure of the data.'] [' SUMMARY Holly, Pesaran, and Yamagata (Journal of Econometrics 2010; 158 : 160\xe2\x80\x93173) use a panel of 49 states over the period 1975\xe2\x80\x932003 to show that state\xe2\x80\x90level real housing prices are driven by economic fundamentals, such as real per capita disposable income, as well as by common shocks, such as changes in interest rates, oil prices and technological change. They apply the common correlated effects estimator of Pesaran (Econometrica 2006; 74 (4): 967\xe2\x80\x93101), which takes into account spatial interactions that reflect both geographical proximity and unobserved common factors. This paper replicates their results using a panel of 381 metropolitan statistical areas observed over the period 1975\xe2\x80\x932011. Our replication shows that their results are fairly robust to the more geographically refined cross\xe2\x80\x90section units, and to the updated period of study. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2013 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] [' This paper obtains the joint and conditional Lagrange multiplier (LM) tests for a spatial lag regression model with spatial auto-regressive error derived in Anselin (Reg Sci Urban Ecom 26:77\xe2\x80\x93104, 1996 ) using artificial double length regressions (DLR). These DLR tests and their corresponding LM tests are compared using an illustrative example and a Monte Carlo simulation. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014'] [' type="main" xml:lang="en"&gt;  This study focuses on the estimation and predictive performance of several estimators for the dynamic and autoregressive spatial lag panel data model with spatially correlated disturbances. In the spirit of Arellano and Bond (1991) and Mutl (2006), a dynamic spatial generalized method of moments (GMM) estimator is proposed based on Kapoor, Kelejian and Prucha (2007) for the spatial autoregressive (SAR) error model. The main idea is to mix non-spatial and spatial instruments to obtain consistent estimates of the parameters. Then, a linear predictor of this spatial dynamic model is derived. Using Monte Carlo simulations, we compare the performance of the GMM spatial estimator to that of spatial and non-spatial estimators and illustrate our approach with an application to new economic geography.'] ['This paper sets up a nested random effects spatial autoregressive panel data model to explain annual house price variation for 2000\xe2\x80\x932007 across 353 local authority districts in England. The estimation problem posed is how to allow for the endogeneity of the spatial lag variable producing the simultaneous spatial spillover of prices across districts together with the nested random effects in a panel data setting. To achieve this, the paper proposes new estimators based on the instrumental variable approaches of Kelejian and Prucha (1998) and Lee (2003) for the cross-sectional spatial autoregressive model. Monte Carlo results show that our estimators perform well relative to alternative approaches and produces estimates based on real data that are consistent with the theoretical house price model underpinning the reduced form.'] [" This paper proposes a generalized panel data model with random effects and first-order spatially autocorrelated residuals that encompasses two previously suggested specifications. The first one is described in Anselin's (1988) book and the second one by Kapoor et al. (2007). Our encompassing specification allows us to test for these models as restricted specifications. In particular, we derive three Lagrange multiplier (LM) and likelihood ration (LR) tests that restrict our generalized model to obtain (i) the Anselin model, (ii) the Kapoor, Kelejian, and Prucha model, and (iii) the simple random effects model that ignores the spatial correlation in the residuals. For two of these three tests, we obtain closed form solutions and we derive their large sample distributions. Our Monte Carlo results show that the suggested tests are powerful in testing for these restricted specifications even in small and medium sized samples."] ['This paper considers the problem of estimation and forecasting in a panel data model with random individual effects and AR(p) remainder disturbances. It utilizes a simple exact transformation for the AR(p) time series process derived by Baltagi and Li (1994) and obtains the generalized least squares estimator for this panel model as a least squares regression. This exact transformation is also used in conjunction with Goldberger\xe2\x80\x99s (1962) result to derive an analytic expression for the best linear unbiased predictor. The performance of this predictor is investigated using Monte Carlo experiments and illustrated using an empirical example.'] ["This paper presents wage curves for formal and informal workers using a rich individual level data for Turkey over the period 2005-2009. The wage curve is an empirical regularity describing a negative relationship between regional unemployment rates and individuals' real wages. While this relationship has been well documented for a number of countries including Turkey, less attention has focused on how this relationship differs for informal versus formal employment. This is of utmost importance for less developed countries where informal employment plays a signifcant role in the economy. Using the Turkish Household Labor Force Survey observed over 26 NUTS-2 regions, we find that real hourly wages of informal workers in Turkey are more sensitive to variations in regional unemployment rates than wages of formal workers. This is true for all workers as well as for different gender and age groups.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper considers testing for cross-sectional dependence in a panel factor model. Based on the model considered by Bai (Econometrica 71: 135\xe2\x80\x93171, 2003 ), we investigate the use of a simple  $$F$$  test for testing for cross-sectional dependence when the factor may be known or unknown. The limiting distributions of these  $$F$$  test statistics are derived when the cross-sectional dimension and the time-series dimension are both large. The main contribution of this paper is to propose a wild bootstrap  $$F$$  test which is shown to be consistent and which performs well in Monte Carlo simulations especially when the factor is unknown. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2013'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The robustness of the LM tests for spatial error dependence of Burridge (1980) for the linear regression model and Anselin (1988) for the panel regression model are examined. While both tests are asymptotically robust against distributional misspecification, their finite sample behavior can be sensitive to the spatial layout. To overcome this shortcoming, standardized LM tests are suggested. Monte Carlo results show that the new tests possess good finite sample properties. An important observation made throughout this study is that the LM tests for spatial dependence need to be both mean and variance-adjusted for good finite sample performance to be achieved. The former is, however, often neglected in the literature.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The standard LM tests for spatial dependence in linear and panel regressions are derived under the normality and homoskedasticity assumptions of the regression disturbances. Hence, they may not be robust against non-normality or heteroskedasticity of the disturbances. Following Born and Breitung (2011), we introduce general methods to modify the standard LM tests so that they become robust against heteroskedasticity and non-normality. The idea behind the robustification is to decompose the concentrated score function into a sum of uncorrelated terms so that the outer product of gradient (OPG) can be used to estimate its variance. We also provide methods for improving the finite sample performance of the proposed tests. These methods are then applied to several popular spatial models. Monte Carlo results show that they work well in finite sample.'] ['  This paper considers the estimation of a linear regression involving the spatial autoregressive (SAR) error term which is nearly nonstationary. The asymptotics properties of the ordinary least squares (OLS), true generalized least squares (GLS) and feasible generalized least squares (FGLS) estimators as well as the corresponding Wald test statistics are derived. Monte Carlo results are conducted to study the sampling behavior of the proposed estimators and test statistics.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper modifies the Hausman and Taylor (1981) panel data estimator to allow for serial correlation in the remainder disturbances. It demonstrates the gains in efficiency of this estimator versus the standard panel data estimators that ignore serial correlation using Monte Carlo experiments.'] ['This paper investigates the factors that determine differences across OECD countries in health outcomes, using data on life expectancy at age 65, over the period 1960 to 2007. We estimate a production function where life expectancy depends on health and social spending, lifestyle variables, and medical innovation. Our first set of regressions includes a set of observed medical technologies by country. Our second set of regressions proxy technology using a spatial process. The paper also tests whether in the long-run countries tend to achieve similar levels of health outcomes. Our results show that health spending has a significant and mild effect on health out- comes, even after controlling for medical innovation. However, its short-run adjustments do not seem to have an impact on health care productivity. Spatial spill overs in life expectancy are significant and point to the existence of interdependence across countries in technology adoption. Furthermore, nations with initial low levels of life expectancy tend to catch up with those with longer-lived populations.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper examines the Turkish wage curve using individual data from the Household Labor Force Survey including 26 NUTS-2 regions over the period 2005\xe2\x80\x932008. We find an unemployment elasticity of \xe2\x88\x920.099, with a higher elasticity for younger, less educated, less experienced and female workers.'] ['A wage curve is a decreasing function of wages on the regional unemployment rate. Most empirical studies on the wage curve ignore possible spatial interaction effects between the regions which are the primary units of research. This paper reconsiders the western German wage curve with a special focus on the geography of labour markets. Spillovers between regions are taken into account. The paper tests whether the unemployment rate in the larger surrounding region also affects wages. In addition, agglomeration effects and effects of local monopsony are assessed.'] ['Various forecasts using panel data with spatial error correlation are compared using Monte Carlo experiments. The true data generating process is assumed to be a simple error component regression model with spatial remainder disturbances of the autoregressive or moving average type. The best linear unbiased predictor is compared with other forecasts ignoring spatial correlation, or ignoring heterogeneity due to the individual effects. In addition, the root mean squared error performance of these forecasts is examined under misspecification of the spatial error process, various spatial weight matrices, and heterogeneous rather than homogeneous panel data models.'] ['It is well known that the standard Breusch and Pagan (1980) LM test for cross-equation correlation in a SUR model is not appropriate for testing cross-sectional dependence in panel data models when the number of cross-sectional units (n) is large and the number of time periods (T) is small. In fact, a scaled version of this LM test was proposed by Pesaran (2004) and its finite sample bias was corrected by Pesaran et al. (2008). This was done in the context of a heterogeneous panel data model. This paper derives the asymptotic bias of this scaled version of the LM test in the context of a fixed effects homogeneous panel data model. This asymptotic bias is found to be a constant related to n and T, which suggests a simple bias corrected LM test for the null hypothesis. Additionally, the paper carries out some Monte Carlo experiments to compare the finite sample properties of this proposed test with existing tests for cross-sectional dependence.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['   This paper proposes a test for the null of sphericity in a fixed effects panel data model. It uses the Random Matrix Theory based approach of Ledoit and Wolf to test for the null of sphericity of the error terms in a fixed effects panel model with a large number of cross\xe2\x80\x90sectional units and time series observations. Because the errors are unobservable, the residuals from the fixed effects regression are used. The limiting distribution of the proposed test statistic is derived. In addition, its finite sample properties are examined using Monte Carlo simulations.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper considers the problem of hypotheses testing in a simple panel data regression model with random individual effects and serially correlated disturbances. Following Baltagi, Kao and Liu (2008), we allow for the possibility of non-stationarity in the regressor and/or the disturbance term. While Baltagi et al. (2008) focus on the asymptotic properties and distributions of the standard panel data estimators, this paper focuses on test of hypotheses in this setting. One important finding is that unlike the time series case, one does not necessarily need to rely on the \xe2\x80\x9csuper-efficient\xe2\x80\x9d type AR estimator by Perron and Yabu (2009) to make inference in panel data. In fact, we show that the simple t-ratio always converges to the standard normal distribution regardless of whether the disturbances and/or the regressor are stationary.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper extends the instrumental variable estimators of Kelejian and Prucha (1998) and Lee (2003) proposed for the cross-sectional spatial autoregressive model to the random effects spatial autoregressive panel data model. It also suggests an extension of the Baltagi (1981) error component 2SLS estimator to this spatial panel model.'] ['Following Arnold and Wied (2010), we suggest an improved generalized moments estimator for the spatial moving average error model which takes explicitly into account that the moment conditions are based on OLS residuals rather than the true disturbances.'] ['This paper considers various estimators using panel data seemingly unrelated regressions (SUR) with spatial error correlation. The true data generating process is assumed to be SUR with spatial error of the autoregressive or moving average type. Moreover, the remainder term of the spatial process is assumed to follow an error component structure. Both maximum likelihood and generalized moments (GM) methods of estimation are used. Using Monte Carlo experiments, we check the performance of these estimators and their forecasts under misspecification of the spatial error process, various spatial weight matrices, and heterogeneous versus homogeneous panel data models.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper proposes maximum likelihood estimators for panel seemingly unrelated regressions with both spatial lag and spatial error components. We study the general case where spatial effects are incorporated via spatial errors terms and via a spatial lag dependent variable and where the heterogeneity in the panel is incorporated via an error component specification. We generalize the approach of Wang and Kockelman (2007) and propose joint and conditional Lagrange multiplier tests for spatial autocorrelation and random effects for this spatial SUR panel model. The small sample performance of the proposed estimators and tests are examined using Monte Carlo experiments. An empirical application to hedonic housing prices in Paris illustrate these methods. The proposed specification uses a system of three SUR equations corresponding to three types of flats within 80 districts of Paris over the period 1990-2003. We test for spatial effects and heterogeneity and find reasonable estimates of the shadow prices for housing characteristics.'] ['This paper reconsiders the long-run economic relationship between health care expenditure and income using a panel of 20 OECD countries observed over the period 1971-2004. In particular, the paper studies the non-stationarity and cointegration properties between health care spending and income. This is done in a panel data context controlling for both cross-section dependence and unobserved heterogeneity. Cross-section dependence is modelled through a common factor model and through spatial dependence. Heterogeneity is handled through fixed effects in a panel homogeneous model and through a panel heterogeneous model. Our findings suggest that health care is a necessity rather than a luxury, with an elasticity much smaller than that estimated in previous studies.'] ['This paper focuses on inference based on the standard panel data estimators of a one-way error component regression model when the true specification is a spatial error component model. Among the estimators considered, are pooled OLS, random and fixed effects, maximum likelihood under normality, etc. The spatial effects capture the cross-section dependence, and the usual panel data estimators ignore this dependence. Two popular forms of spatial autocorrelation are considered, namely, spatial autoregressive random effects (SAR-RE) and spatial moving average random effects (SMA-RE). We show that when the spatial coefficients are large, test of hypothesis based on the standard panel data estimators that ignore spatial dependence can lead to misleading inference.'] ['This note studies the Lee and Yu (2009) spurious regression model for the special case where the weight matrix is normalized and has equal elements, and where the nonstationarity is caused by near unit roots. It shows that spurious spatial regression will not occur in a spatially autoregressive (SAR) model when the spatial weight matrix is row-normalized and has equal weights. In fact, the asymptotic distribution of the OLS estimate will always converge to its true value zero. The only condition required is that the spatial coefficients of the dependent and independent variables be both less than 1, which is a requirement for the SAR model to be an equilibrium model.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper considers a panel data regression model with heteroskedastic as well as serially correlated disturbances, and derives a joint LM\xc3\x82 test for homoskedasticity and no first order serial correlation. The restricted model is the standard random individual error component model. It also derives a conditional LM test for homoskedasticity given serial correlation, as well as, a conditional LM test for no first order serial correlation given heteroskedasticity, all in the context of a random effects panel data model. Monte Carlo results show that these tests along with their likelihood ratio alternatives have good size and power under various forms of heteroskedasticity including exponential and quadratic functional forms.'] ['This note shows that for a spatial regression with equal weights, the LM test is always equal to N\xc3\x82 /\xc3\x82 2(N\xc3\x82 -\xc3\x82 1), where N is the sample size. This means that this test statistics is a function of N and not a function of the spatial parameter [rho]. In fact, this test statistic tends to one half for N tending to infinity. The null hypothesis of no spatial correlation is never rejected no matter what [rho] is.'] ['A panel data regression model with heteroskedastic as well as spatially correlated disturbances is considered, and a joint LM test for homoskedasticity and no spatial correlation is derived. In addition, a conditional LM test for no spatial correlation given heteroskedasticity, as well as a conditional LM test for homoskedasticity given spatial correlation, are also derived. These LM tests are compared with marginal LM tests that ignore heteroskedasticity in testing for spatial correlation, or spatial correlation in testing for homoskedasticity. Monte Carlo results show that these LM tests, as well as their LR counterparts, perform well, even for small N and T. However, misleading inferences can occur when using marginal, rather than joint or conditional LM tests when spatial correlation or heteroskedasticity is present.'] ['This paper addresses the empirical question of whether trade and financial openness can help explain the recent pace in financial development, as well as its variation across countries in recent years. Utilising annual data from developing and industrialised countries and dynamic panel estimation techniques, we provide evidence which suggests that both types of openness are statistically significant determinants of banking sector development. Our findings reveal that the marginal effects of trade (financial) openness are negatively related to the degree of financial (trade) openness, indicating that relatively closed economies stand to benefit most from opening up their trade and/or capital accounts. Although these economies may be able to accomplish more by taking steps to open both their trade and capital accounts, opening up one without the other could still generate gains in terms of banking sector development. Thus, our findings provide only partial support to the well known Rajan and Zingales hypothesis, which stipulates that both types of openness are necessary for financial development to take place.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Chamberlain [Chamberlain, G., 1982. Multivariate regression models for panel data. Journal of Econometrics 18, 5-46] showed that the fixed effects (FE) specification imposes testable restrictions on the coefficients from regressions of all leads and lags of dependent variables on all leads and lags of independent variables. Angrist and Newey [Angrist, J.D., Newey, W.K., 1991. Over-identification tests in earnings functions with fixed effects, Journal of Business &amp; Economic Statistics 9, 317-323] suggested computing this test statistic as the degrees of freedom times the R2 from a regression of within residuals on all leads and lags of the exogenous variables. Despite the simplicity of these tests, they are not commonly used in practice. Instead, a Hausman [Hausman, J.A., 1978. Specification tests in econometrics, Econometrica 46, 1251-1271] test is used based on a contrast of the fixed and random effects specifications. We advocate the use of Chamberlain test if the researcher wants to settle on the FE specification and we check this test's performance using Monte Carlo experiments and we apply it to the crime example of Cornwell and Trumbull [Cornwell, C., Trumbull, W.N., 1994. Estimating and economic model of crime with panel data. Review of Economics and Statistics 76, 360-366]."] ["Blanchflower and Oswald [Blanchflower, David G. and Oswald, Andrew J., 1994a, The Wage Curve, (Cambridge, MA, MIT Press), Blanchflower, David G. and Oswald, Andrew J., 1994b, Estimating a Wage Curve for Britain 1973-90, The Economic Journal 104, 1025-1043. Eine praktische Einf\xc3\xbchrung, N\xc3\xbcrnberg] reported that they have found an 'empirical law of economics' -- the Wage Curve. Our paper reconsiders the western German Wage Curve using disaggregated regional data and is based on almost one million employees drawn from the Federal Employment Services of Germany over the period 1980-2004. We find that the wage equation is highly autoregressive but far from unit root. The unemployment elasticity is significant but relatively small: only between -\xc3\x82 0.02 and -\xc3\x82 0.04. We also check the sensitivity of this elasticity for different population groups (young versus old, men versus women, less educated versus highly educated, German native versus foreigner), confirming that it is stronger the weaker the bargaining power of the particular group."] ["Baltagi and Li [Baltagi, B.H., Li, Q., 1992. A note on the estimation of simultaneous equations with error components. Econometric Theory 8, 113-119] showed that for estimating a single equation in a simultaneous panel data model, EC2SLS has more instruments than G2SLS. Although these extra instruments are redundant in White's [White, H., 1986. Instrumental variables analogs of generalized least squares estimators. In: Mariano, R.S. (Ed.), Advances in Statistical Analysis and Statistical Computing, vol. 1. JAI Press, New York, pp. 173-277] terminology, they may yield different estimates and standard errors in empirical studies with finite N and T. We illustrate this using the crime data of Cornwell and Trumbull [Cornwell, C., Trumbull, W.N., 1994. Estimating the economic model of crime with panel data. Review of Economics and Statistics 76, 360-366]. We show that the standard errors of EC2SLS are smaller than those of G2SLS for this example. In general, we prove that the asymptotic variance of G2SLS differs from that of EC2SLS by a positive semi-definite matrix. Although this difference tends to zero as the sample size tends to infinity, in small samples, this difference may be different from zero and can lead to gains in small sample efficiency. This proof is extended to the system equations' 3SLS counterparts."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper gives a brief survey of forecasting with panel data. It begins with a simple error component regression model and surveys the best linear unbiased prediction under various assumptions of the disturbance term. This includes various ARMA models as well as spatial autoregressive models. The paper also surveys how these forecasts have been used in panel data applications, running horse races between heterogeneous and homogeneous panel data models using out-of-sample forecasts. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2008 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] ['Recent research on trade and multinationals highlights a novel issue with multinational firms. In particular, their integration strategies are complex and the degree of vertical integration varies in a multilateral world with many possible locations of activity. Multinationals may choose some plants to serve consumers locally only, whereas others engage in trade. Overall, this may explain the fact that a high percentage of world trade is actually controlled by multinational firms, although most of the foreign direct investment (FDI) occurs within the block of developed countries. The most important regional trade agreements (RTAs) are signed beween members of the very same block of economies. This gives rise to the question asked in the present paper: what is the impact of RTAs on FDI in an interdependent world? The paper focuses on the role of the Europe Agreements between the member countries of the European Union and ten Central and Eastern European countries. In doing so, recent spatial HAC estimation techniques are applied to both estimation and testing.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper derives a joint Lagrange Multiplier (LM) test which simultaneously tests for the absence of spatial lag dependence and random individual effects in a panel data regression model. It turns out that this LM statistic is the sum of two standard LM statistics. The first one tests for the absence of spatial lag dependence ignoring the random individual effects, and the second one tests for the absence of random individual effects ignoring the spatial lag dependence. This paper also derives two conditional LM tests. The first one tests for the absence of random individual effects without ignoring the possible presence of spatial lag dependence. The second one tests for the absence of spatial lag dependence without ignoring the possible presence of random individual effects.'] [' This paper studies the asymptotic properties of standard panel data estimators in a simple panel regression model with random error component disturbances. Both the regressor and the remainder disturbance term are assumed to be autoregressive and possibly non-stationary. Asymptotic distributions are derived for the standard panel data estimators including ordinary least squares (OLS), fixed effects (FE), first-difference (FD) and generalized least squares (GLS) estimators when both T and n are large. We show that all the estimators have asymptotic normal distributions and have different convergence rates dependent on the non-stationarity of the regressors and the remainder disturbances. We show using Monte Carlo experiments that the loss in efficiency of the OLS, FE and FD estimators relative to true GLS can be substantial. Copyright The Author(s). Journal compilation Royal Economic Society 2008'] ['The model selection approach has been proposed as an alternative to the popular tests for cointegration such as the residual-based ADF test and the system-based trace test. Using information criteria, we conduct cointegration tests on 165 data sets used in published studies. The empirical results demonstrate the usefulness of the model selection approach for applied researchers.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper examines the consequences of model misspecification using a panel data model with spatially autocorrelated disturbances. The performance of several maximum likelihood estimators assuming different specifications for this model are compared using Monte Carlo experiments. These include (i) MLE of a random effects model that ignore the spatial correlation; (ii) MLE described in Anselin [1988] which assumes that the individual effects are not spatially autocorrelated; (iii) MLE described in Kapoor, et al. [2006] which assumes that both the individual effects and the remainder error are governed by the same spatial autocorelation; (iv) MLE described in Baltagi, et al. [2006] which allows the spatial correlation parameter for the individual effects to be different from that of the remainder error term. The latter model encompasses the other models and allows the researcher to test these specifications as restrictions on the general model using LM and LR tests. In fact, based on these tests, we suggest a pretest estimator which is shown to perform well in Monte Carlo experiments, ranking a close second to the true MLE in mean squared error performance.'] ["This paper updates Baltagi's (2003, Econometric Theory 19, 165-224) rankings of academic institutions by publication activity in econometrics from 1989-1999 to 1989-2005. This ranking is based on 16 leading international journals that publish econometrics articles. It is compared with the prior rankings by Hall (1980, 1987) for the period 1980-1988. In addition, a list of the top 150 individual producers of econometrics in these 16 journals over this 17-year period is provided. This is done for theoretical econometrics as well as all contributions in econometrics. Sensitivity analysis is provided using (i) alternative weighting factors given to the 16 journals taking into account impact citations, excluding self-citations, size and age of the journal, (ii) alternative time intervals, namely, (2000-2005), (1995-2005), and (1989-2005), (iii) alternative ranking using the number of articles published in these journals, (iv) separate rankings for both institutions and individuals by journal, (v) rankings for institutions and individuals based on publications in three core econometrics journals. This paper is forthcoming in Econometric Theory.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['Hausman [1978. Specification tests in econometrics. Econometrica 46, 1251-1271] showed that his specification test in panel data, which is based on the contrast between fixed effects (FE) and the random effects (RE) estimators, can also be obtained as a Wald test from an artificial OLS regression. This paper generalizes this result to the 2SLS counterpart. Instead of a contrast based on FE 2SLS and RE 2SLS as proposed more recently by Baltagi [2004. A Hausman test based on the difference between fixed effects two-stage least squares and error components two-stage least squares, problem 04.1.1. Econometric Theory 20, 223-224] artificial regressions are proposed that would generate this Hausman test using 2SLS regressions.'] [" The papers included in this special issue are primarily concerned with the problem of cross section dependence and heterogeneity in the analysis of panel data models and their relevance in applied econometric research. Cross section dependence can arise due to spatial or spill over effects, or could be due to unobserved (or unobservable) common factors. Much of the recent research on non-stationary panel data have focussed on this problem. It was clear that the first generation panel unit root and cointegration tests developed in the 1990's, which assumed cross-sectional independence, are inadequate and could lead to significant size distortions in the presence of neglected cross-section dependence. Second generation panel unit root and cointegration tests that take account of possible cross-section dependence in the data have been developed, see the recent surveys by Choi (2006) and Breitung and Pesaran (2007). The papers by Baltagi, Bresson and Pirotte, Choi and Chue, Kapetanios, and Pesaran in this special issue are further contributions to this literature. The papers by Fachin, and Moon and Perron are empirical studies in this area. Controlling for heterogeneity has also been an important concern for empirical researchers with panel data methods promising better handle on heterogeneity than cross-section data methods. The papers by Hsiao, Shen, Wang and Weeks, Pedroni and Serlenga and Shin are empirical contributions to this area. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2007 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper studies the performance of panel unit root tests when spatial effects are present that account for cross-section correlation. Monte Carlo simulations show that there can be considerable size distortions in panel unit root tests when the true specification exhibits spatial error correlation. These tests are applied to a panel data set on net real income from the 1000 largest French communes observed over the period 1985-1998. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2007 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] ['The recent general equilibrium theory of trade and multinationals emphasizes the importance of third countries and the complex integration strtegies of multinationals. Little has been done to test this theory empirically. This paper attempts to rectify this situation by considering not only bilateral determinants, but also spatially weighted third-country determinants of foreign direct investment (FDI). Since the dependency among host markets is paticularly related to multinationals\' trade between them, we use trade costs (distances) as spatial weights. Using panel data on U.S. industries and host countries observed over the 1989-1999 period, we estimate a "complex FDI" version of the knowledge-capital model of U.S. outward FDI by various recently developed spatial panel data generalized moments (GM) estimators. We find that third-country effects are significant, lending support to the existence of various modes of complex FDI.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The aim of this paper is to improve our understanding of the key determinants of intra- and extra-euro area imports. Using a simultaneous equation estimation framework, and pooling the data across nine euro area countries as an approximation of the euro area, we estimate intra- and extra-euro area import demand functions and impose various restrictions within and across equations. We find that there are significant substitution effects btween intra- and extra-euro area imports due to changes in their relative prices, while exchange rate volatility decreases trade vis-\xc3\xa0-vis regions characterised by high volatility and leads to substitution of trade away from higher-volatility regions towards lower-volatility regions.'] [' This paper replicates the Cornwell and Trumbull (1994) estimation of a crime model using panel data on 90 counties in North Carolina over the period 1981-1987. While the Between and Within estimates are replicated, the fixed effects 2SLS as well as the 2SLS estimates are not. In fact, the fixed effects 2SLS estimates turn out to be insignificant for all important deterrent variables as well as legal opportunity variables. We argue that the usual Hausman test, based on the difference between fixed effects and random effects, may lead to misleading inference when endogenous variables of the conventional simultaneous equation type are among the regressors. We estimate the model using random effects 2SLS and perform a Hausman test based on the difference between fixed effects 2SLS and random effects 2SLS. We cannot reject the consistency of the random effects 2SLS estimator and this estimator yields plausible and significant estimates of the crime model. This result should be tempered by the legitimacy of the chosen instruments. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2006 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper considers a general heteroskedastic error component model using panel data, and derives a joint LM test for homoskedasticity against the alternative of heteroskedasticity in both error components. It contrasts this joint LM test with marginal LM tests that ignore the heteroskedasticity in one of the error components. Monte Carlo results show that misleading inference can occur when using marginal rather than joint tests when heteroskedasticity is present in both components.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This note considers a panel data regression model with spatial autoregressive disturbances and random effects where the weight matrix is normalized and has equal elements. This is motivated by Kelejian et al. (2005), who argue that such a weighting matrix, having blocks of equal elements, might be considered when units are equally distant within certain neighborhoods but unrelated between neighborhoods. We derive a simple weighted least squares transformation that obtains GLS on this model as a simple OLS. For the special case of a spatial panel model with no random effects, we obtain two sufficient conditions where GLS on this model is equivalent to OLS. Finally, we show that these results, for the equal weight matrix, hold whether we use the spatial autoregressive specification, the spatial moving average specification, the spatial error components specification or the Kapoor et al. (2005) alternative to modeling panel data with spatially correlated error components.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Abstract This paper considers the problem of prediction in a panel data regression model with spatial autocorrelation in the context of a simple demand equation for liquor. This is based on a panel of 43 states over the period 1965\xe2\x80\x931994. The spatial autocorrelation due to neighbouring states and the individual heterogeneity across states is taken explicitly into account. We compare the performance of several predictors of the states\xe2\x80\x99 demand for liquor for 1 year and 5 years ahead. The estimators whose predictions are compared include OLS, fixed effects ignoring spatial correlation, fixed effects with spatial correlation, random-effects GLS estimator ignoring spatial correlation and random-effects estimator accounting for the spatial correlation. Based on RMSE forecast performance, estimators that take into account spatial correlation and heterogeneity across the states perform the best for forecasts 1 year ahead. However, for forecasts 2\xe2\x80\x935 years ahead, estimators that take into account the heterogeneity across the states yield the best forecasts.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Alcohol consumption in Russia is legendary and has been reported to be the third leading cause of death in the former Soviet Union after heart disease and cancer. Are Russian alcohol consumers rational addicts? This paper uses eight rounds of a nationally representative Russian survey spanning the period 1994-2003 to estimate a rational addiction (RA) model for alcohol consumption. This is done in a panel data setting as well as on a wave-by-wave basis. The profile of the Russian drinker finds a huge difference between males and females and the model is estimated by gender. We do not find support for the RA model in Russia for women. For men, although we find that some implications of the RA model are satisfied, we fail to endorse the model empirically on grounds of implausible negative estimates of the discount rate. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2006 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] ['This article applies recent advances in productivity and efficiency measurement to the evaluation of skillbiased technical change. Using the general index approach we are able to establish an explicit and unconstrained time path for nonneutral technical change between production and nonproduction labor in U.S. manufacturing industries over the 1959-1996 period. Our findings confirm the prevailing interpretation in the labor economics literature that substantial reductions in the relative share of production labor are attributable to a sustained period of nonneutral technical change. However, we find that skill-biased technical change effects are most evident prior to 1983. This predates the diffusion of personal computer technologies in the workplace and the dramatic wage structure changes associated with the 1980\xe2\x80\x99s. In contrast to prevailing alternatives, the general index approach also permits us to explain observed shifts in relative labor demand as a combination of price-induced substitution, nonhomothetic output effects and skill-biased technical change responses to a range of proposed elements.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Physicians are key personnel in a sector which is important due to its size as well as the quality of service it provides. We estimate the labor supply of physicians employed at hospitals in Norway, using personnel register data merged with other public records. A dynamic labor supply equation is estimated using a sample of 1303 male physicians observed over the period 1993-1997. The methods of estimation are GMM and system GMM. We reject the static model in favor of a dynamic model and obtain short run wage elasticities around 0.3. This is higher than previously estimated for physicians, in particular for those who are not self-employed. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2005 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] [' This paper checks the sensitivity of two adaptive heteroskedastic estimators suggested by Li and Stengos (1994) and Roy (2002) for an error component regression model to misspecification of the form of heteroskedasticity. In particular, we run Monte Carlo experiments using the heteroskedasticity setup by Li and Stengos (1994) to see how the misspecified Roy (2002) estimator performs. Next, we use the heteroskedasticity setup by Roy (2002) to see how the misspecified Li and Stengos (1994) estimator performs. We also check the sensitivity of these results to the choice of the smoothing parameters, the sample size, and the degree of heteroskedasticity. We find that the Li and Stengos (1994) estimator performs better under this type of misspecification than the corresponding estimator of Roy (2002). However, the former estimator is sensitive to the choice of the bandwidth.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper reconsiders the Tobin q investment model studied by Hsiao et al. (1999) using a panel of 337 U.S. firms over the period 1982\xe2\x80\x931998. It contrasts the out-of-sample forecasts performance of hierarchical Bayes, shrinkage, as well as heterogeneous and homogeneous panel data estimators. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2004'] [' This paper uses 336 state tax changes across the U.S. spanning 42 years (1956\xe2\x80\x931997) to provide an updated look at the quasi-experimental price elasticities of cigarette demand. It also studies the sensitivity of these elasticity estimates to changes in the cigarette market over time as well as their sensitivity to border-effect purchases. Besides replicating earlier findings, the results show a downward trend in these elasticities over time and sensitivity to border effect purchases. Policy implications are discussed. Copyright Academy of Economics and Finance 2004'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper contrasts the performance of heterogeneous and shrinkage estimators versus the more traditional homogeneous panel data estimators. The analysis utilizes a panel data set from 21 French regions over the period 1973\xe2\x80\x931998 and a dynamic demand specification to study the gasoline demand in France. Out-of-sample forecast performance as well as the plausibility of the various estimators are contrasted. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2003'] ['This paper derives several Lagrange Multiplier tests for the panel data regression model with spatial error correlation. These tests draw upon two strands of earlier work. The first is the LM tests for the spatial error correlation model discussed in Anselin (1988, 1999) and Anselin, Bera, Florax and Yoon (1996), and the second is the LM tests for the error component panel data model discussed in Breusch and Pagan (1980) and Baltagi, Chang and Li (1992). The idea is to allow for both spatial error correlation as well as random region effects in the panel data regression model and to test for their joint significance. Additionally, this paper derives conditional LMtests, which test for random regional effects given the presence of spatial error correlation. Also, spatial error correlation given the presence of random regional effects. These conditional LM tests are an alternative to the one directional LM tests that test for random regional effects ignoring the presence of spatial error correlation or the one directional LM tests for spatial error correlation ignoring the presence of random regional effects. We argue that these joint and conditional LM tests guard against possible misspecification. Extensive Monte Carlo experiments are conducted to study the performance of these LM tests as well as the corresponding Likelihood Ratio tests.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Shortage of nurses is a problem in several countries. It is an unsettled question whether increasing wages constitute a viable policy for extracting more labour supply from nurses. In this paper we use a unique matched panel data set of Norwegian nurses covering the period 1993-1998 to estimate wage elasticities. The data set includes detailed information on 19 638 individuals over 6 years totalling 69 122 observations. The estimated wage elasticity after controlling for individual heterogeneity, sample selection and instrumenting for possible endogeneity is 0.21. Individual and institutional features are statistically significant and important for working hours. Contractual arrangements as represented by shift work are also important for hours of work, and omitting information about this common phenomenon will underestimate the wage effect. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2003 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] [' This paper derives several Lagrange Multiplier tests for the unbalanced nested error component model. Economic data with a natural nested grouping include firms grouped by industry; or students grouped by schools. The LM tests derived include the joint test for both effects as well as the test for one effect conditional on the presence of the other. The paper also derives the standardized versions of these tests, their asymptotic locally mean most powerful version as well as their robust to local misspecification version. Monte Carlo experiments are conducted to study the performance of these LM tests.'] ['This paper derives several Lagrange Multiplier tests for the unbalanced nested error component model with serially correlated remainder disturbances. The problems of overtesting and undertesting for serial correlation and zero random group and nested subgroup effects are considered. The joint test extends the earlier work of Breush and Pagan [1980] and King and Wu [1997] to the unbalanced nested error component regression model with serially correlated errors. Additionally, conditional LM tests, asymptotically local mean most powerful (LMMP) tests; modified Rao-Score tests that guard against local misspecification are proposed for this model. These generalize the work of Baltagi and Li [1995], Rahman and King [1998] and Bera and Yoon [1993]. Finally, Monte Carlo experiments are conducted to study the performance of these LM tests.'] [' Utilizing a panel data set of 42 states over the period 1959-1994, this paper estimates a rational addiction model for liquor consumption for the US. The empirical evidence is consistent with the rational addiction hypothesis proposed by Becker and Murphy. However, the results are sensitive to the assumption of homogeneity across states or over time. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2002 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] [' This paper considers the unbalanced two-way error component model studied by Wansbeek and Kapteyn (1989). Alternative analysis of variance (ANOVA), minimum norm quadratic unbiased and restricted maximum likelihood (REML) estimation procedures are proposed. The mean squared error performance of these estimators are compared using Monte Carlo experiments. Results show that for the estimates of the variance components, the computationally more demanding maximum likelihood (ML) and minimum variance quadratic unbiased (MIVQUE) estimators are recommended, especially if the unbalanced pattern is severe. However, focusing on the regression coefficient estimates, the simple ANOVA methods perform just as well as the computationally demanding ML and MIVQUE methods and are recommended. Copyright Royal Economic Society, 2002'] ['This paper considers the problem of estimating a partially linear semiparametric fixed effects panel data model with possible endogeneity. Using the series method, we establish the root N normality result for the estimator of the parametric component, and we show that the unknown function can be consistently estimated at the standard nonparametric rate.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper derives two simple artificial Double Length Regressions (DLR) to test for spatial dependence. The first DLR tests for spatial lag dependence while the second DLR tests for spatial error dependence. Both artificial regressions utilize only least squares residuals of the restricted model and are therefore easy to compute. These tests are illustrated using two simple examples. In addition, Monte Carlo experiments are performed to study the small sample performance of these tests. As expected, these DLR tests have similar performance to their corresponding LM counterparts.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper studies the asymptotic properties of the semiparametric estimator considered by Pagan and Ullah (1988) and Pagan and Hong (1991) for models with risk terms. We show that when the risk term is nonparametrically specified, the estimator with generated regressors suggested by Pagan and Ullah (1988) and Pagan and Hong (1991) is [image omitted]-consistent and has an asymptotic normal distribution. The result is then applied to analyzing risk premium for the U.S. dollar against the British pound, the French franc and the Japanese yen exchange markets for monthly data covering the period 1976:1 to 1992:8.'] [" This article reexamines the econometric estimation of rational-addiction models considered by Becker, Grossman, and Murphy (BGM) for cigarette consumption. The rational-addiction model poses a number of additional econometric difficulties including endogeneity due to the presence of leads and lags of the dependent variable and serial correlation in the disturbances. BGM considered a fixed-effects two-stage least squares (2SLS) estimator. It is well known that this estimator is biased for fixed T. This article suggests a forward-filter first-difference 2SLS estimator and a generalized method of moments type of estimator that are consistent. Using a panel dataset of 46 states over the period 1963-92, this article estimates the rational-addiction model for cigarettes. Our empirical results are both supportive of the rational-addiction hypothesis and more plausible than BGM's original results."] ['This paper derives Lagrangian multiplier (LM) tests to jointly test for functional form and spatial error correlation. In particular, this paper tests for linear and log-linear models with no spatial error dependence against a more general Box-Cox model with spatial error correlation. Conditional LM tests and modified Rao score tests that guard against local misspecification are also derived. These tests are easy to implement and are illustrated using Anselin\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x84\xa2s crime data. The performance of these tests is also compared using Monte Carlo experiments.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper reexamines the benefits of pooling and, in addition, contrasts the performance of newly proposed heterogeneous estimators. The analysis utilizes a panel data set from 46 American states over the period 1963 to 1992 and a dynamic demand specification for cigarettes. Also, the forecast performance of the various estimators is compared. \xc2\xa9 2000 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper ranks academic institutions by publication activity in applied econometrics over the period 1989-1995. Fourteen leading international journals that publish applied econometrics articles are used to provide the database. The rankings are based on standardized page counts of articles published in these journals over the stated period. A 'Hall of Fame' is developed listing the top 100 individual producers of applied econometrics in the fourteen journals considered. To control for quality differences among the applied journals, separate rankings are provided both for institutions and for individuals according to econometrics publications by journal."] ['This paper analyzes the effects of individual-specific size factors in a dynamic panel regression model. Theory and simulation show that an individual-specific size factor, with a fat-tailed distribution or a time-varying property, may cause spurious stochastics. If a pair of panel variables depends on size in some way, then they appear to find a strong relationship, if the size variable is not used in the regression, even if the variables are otherwise independent. Moreover, forecasts based on models that have omitted size-factors are affected seriously by the property of the size-factors. A pooling regression with very short time-series appears to fit well in sample, but forecasts poorly out-of-sample if the neglected individual-specific size-factor has a fat-tailed distribution.'] ["This paper surveys some applications of artificial regressions including the Gauss-Newton, Double-Length and Binary Response Model regressions as testing tools for panel data models. In addition, several other artificial regression tests are reviewed including Hausman's [1978] specification test, Chamberlain's [1982] omnibus goodness-of-fit test and Wooldridge's [1995] simple variable addition tests for selection bias. The important point to emphasize is that in many cases these artificial regressions provide the easiest way to compute specification tests, and in most cases provide a reasonably easy way to do so."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper examines the permanence of excess capacity in the US airline industry. To avoid the problems with the standard engineering measure of capacity utilization, load factor, we define and measure capacity as an economic concept. Two measures of economic capacity utilization are then computed-one, a demand-based measure and the other an output-based measure of capacity utilization. Both measures share little in common with the standard engineering measure (load factor) and reveal some interesting attributes of airline travel demand. This paper also provides interesting new insights into the role of deregulation and the costs of excess capacity during regulation. Specifically, it is found that deregulation with the concomitant rationalization of route structures enabled airlines to move closer to their optimal levels of capacity and facilitated substantial improvements in capacity utilization and cost reductions over the period considered. \xc2\xa9 1998 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper derives Lagrange multiplier tests based on double-length artificial regressions for testing linear and loglinear error component regressions against Box-Cox alternatives. These tests are easy to implement and should prove useful in panel data regressions.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['A Monte Carlo study is used to compare the finite sample relative efficiency of a number of pure and pre-test estimators for an error component model with first-order autocorrelated remainder disturbances.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper estimates a dynamic demand model for liquor in the United States using panel data from 43 states. Because of taste changes over time and between states in liquor consumption, purely time series or cross sectional studies do not elicit reliable price elasticity estimates. This study makes the case for pooling and shows how one can control for individual state effects and endogeneity of the regressors using estimators suited for a dynamic demand model. Our results indicate that the long-run price elasticity is in the -0.7 range. The findings also support strong habit persistence, a small positive income elasticity, and very weak evidence of bootlegging from adjoining states. The magnitude of the long-run price effect suggests that sin taxes can serve not only as an important income source but also as a significant deterrent effect. Copyright 1995 by MIT Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper proposes a methodology for obtaining estimates of firm-specific technical change econometrically and contrasts those estimates with a multilateral total factor productivity index. Based on a panel data set of airlines, two measures are contrasted in a variety of ways. To the extent that output characteristics differ as in the case of airlines, the two measures differ significantly. Both measures are regressed on a variety of factors potentially influencing technical efficiency, confirming that improvements in fuel efficiency and load factor have played major roles, with hubbing and competition playing smaller roles, in explaining efficiency improvements. Copyright 1995 by MIT Press.'] [' This paper analyzes cost changes in the U.S. airline industry in the pre- and postderegulation era using a panel data set of airlines. Specifically, it seeks to disentangle cost changes attributable to technical change, economies of scale and density, and input prices. The authors estimate a purely general index of industry technical change and in turn analyze its determinants. Despite the slowing of productivity growth in the 1980s, deregulation does appear to have stimulated technical change due to more efficient route structures. Copyright 1995 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The contribution of different types of public infrastructure on private production is investigated using time-series of cross-section data for the 48 contiguous states over the period 1970-86. A Cobb-Douglas production function is estimated with unobserved state-specific effects. Measurement errors in public capital stock and its components are detected and rectified.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper provides a simple estimation method for an error component regression model with general MA( q) remainder disturbances. The estimation method utilizes the transformation derived by Baltagi and Li [3] for an error component model with autoregressive remainder disturbances, and a standard orthogonalizing algorithm for the general MA( q) model. This estimation method is computationally simple utilizing only least-squares regressions. This is important for panel data regressions where brute force GLS is in many cases not feasible.This estimation method performs well relative to true GLS in Monte-Carlo experiments.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' An overview of the organization and contents of the papers in this collection is provided. This collection of fourteen papers on the econometrics of panel data aims to provide the readers with a select group of contemporary theoretical and applied research topics in panel data analysis.'] ['Baltagi [3] derived 2SLS and 3SLS analogues for a simultaneous equation model with error components. These were denoted by EC2SLS and EC3SLS. More recently, Balestra and Varadharajan-Krishnakumar [1] derived alternative 2SLS and 3SLS analogues; these were denoted by G2SLS and G3SLS. This note explains the relationship between these estimators and shows that the set of instruments employed by Balestra and Varadharajan-Krishnakumar is a subset of those used in Baltagi. In addition this paper shows that for the single equation case the extra set of instruments is redundant and both EC2SLS and G2SLS have the same asymptotic variance-covariance matrix. However, for the system of equations, it can be shown that EC3SLS is asymptotically more efficient than G3SLS.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper surveys some recent developments in panel data analysis. In particular, it focuses on the error component model which is popular in panel data applications, and discusses recent advances in its estimation under heteroscedasticity, serial correlation, and a general variance-covariance matrix. It also surveys the extensions of this model to the seemingly unrelated regressions case, and the simultaneous equations case. The dynamic case and the incomplete panel data case are also considered, as well as a host of other miscellaneous extensions. Prediction with this model is briefly surveyed and alternative tests for this model are reviewed. While the bibliography is not exhaustive, this survey should complement previous surveys and should prove useful for researchers working in this area.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper derives a simple lagrange multiplier (LM) test which jointly tests the presence of random individual effects and serial correlation. This test is an extension of the Breusch and Pagan (1980) LM test. It is computationally simple and requires only the OLS residuals. It should prove useful for panel data applications where both serial correlation and random individual effects are suspect.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper estimates a simple error correction mechanism (SECM) model of consumption a la Davidson, Hendry, Srba and Yeo (1978) for 13 OECD countries over the period 1951-82. This is done for each country separately as well as for the pooled data. The basic results of this study are the following: (1) The SECM model appears as an adequate approximation to the data generating process on an individual country basis as well as in a pooled context. (2) The pooled within estimator indicates a large and significant disequilibrium term while the between estimator indicates a small and insignificant disequilibrium term. This is consistent with the belief that the within estimator tend to yield short-run estimates while the between estimator tend to yield long-run estimates.'] [' This paper attempts a replication of the Cornwell and Rupert (1988) study--hereafter CR. The CR study investigated the efficiency gains in a returns to schooling example by applying alternative sets of instrumental variables estimators for panel data regressions proposed by Hausman and Taylor (1981), Amemiya and MaCurdy (1986), and Breusch, Mizon, and Schmidt (1989). Corrections on the CR data set lead to changes in the legitimate set of instruments, when the time dummies are excluded from the regression, and to much lower empirical gains in efficiency than those reported in CR. If the time dummies are retained in the wage equation, the experience coefficient is not estimable by the within regression, and the empirical gains in efficiency from using the IV procedures are not limited to the time-invariant education coefficient. Copyright 1990 by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Schmidt's [1977] results on seemingly unrelated regressions with unequal number of observations are replicated. These results are shown to be robust to the type of addtional observations available i. e., whether they are time series or cross-sectional in nature. An important finding is that the extra observations may lead to better estimates of the variance-covariance matrix ? or its inverse, but this does not necessarily lead to better estimates of the regression coefficients."] ['This paper considers three examples from the statistics and econometrics literature where OLS is BLUE and demonstrates the easiness of verifying this result with the necessary and sufficient condition (NSC) derived by Zyskind (1967) and more recently Milliken and Albohali (1984). In particular, the third example is extended to a more general model where OLS is still BLUE. Once again this result is verified by the Milliken and Albohali NSC.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Explanations for takeovers often focus on managerial inefficiency as an explanation. This paper utilizes panel data for a set of petroleum firms to test two competing hypotheses about managerial inefficiency--the heterogeneous managerial model versus the free cash flow variant of agency theory. By focusing on specific investment categories like exploration, bidding and leasing activity, and R$50D, the effects of changes in management and cash flow are better isolated. The empirical results provide considerable support for the free cash flow variant of agency theory showing that reduced cash flow due to restructuring will curtail investments in exploration, bidding and leasing activity, and R$50D. Copyright 1989 by MIT Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper outlines a procedure for estimating a general index of technical change within the context of a qui te general production technology. Specifically, when panel data are a vailable for firms in an industry, time-specific dummies can be combi ned in a nonlinear estimation procedure to yield a general index of t echnical change that may be both nonneutral and scale augmenting. The general index can serve as the basis for analysis of the determinant s of technical change. Results for a sample of thirty electric utilit ies over the period 1951-78 show that the productivity decline of the 1970s can be attributed primarily to sulphur oxide restrictions and secularly declining capacity utilization due to rapidly increasing pe ak-load demands. Copyright 1988 by University of Chicago Press.'] [" This paper generalizes the one-way error component model from the homoskedastic to the heteroskedastic case. Unlike P. Mazodier and A. Trognon's (1978) heteroskedastic two-way error component model, an explicit form for V11/2 is obtained that allows the computation of generalized least squares as a simple modification of J. A. Hausman's (1978) procedure for the homoskedastic case. Two methods for estimating the variance components are proposed. The first estimates the variance components based on ordinary least squares and within residuals. The second uses the minimum norm quadratic unbiased estimation procedure suggested by C. R. Rao (1970). These methods are then applied to the estimation of gasoline demand for eighteen OECD countries over the period 1964-78. Copyright 1988 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Predicting the demand for motor gasoline over the last ten years has proven a most frustrating experience. Up until 1973, industry analysts felt considerable assurance in applying historical growth rates that averaged approximately 5 percent per year. Who in 1973 would have predicted that gasoline consumption in 1981 would fall below 1973 levels? For example, in 1973, Shell Oil Company predicted annual growth of 4.9 percent per year. Their forecasted value for the year 1981 exceeded the actual level by 42.7 percent (Shell, 1973). Unfortunately, errors of this magnitude are not as benign as predicting the point spread in a pro football game. To the contrary, both private and public policy decisions depend on the accuracy of such forecasts. Because of the importance of gasoline as the major refinery product, refinery expansion plans and retail marketing strategies are conditioned on such forecasts. Similarly, public policy decisions regarding auto efficiency standards, auto pollution controls, and oil import policy depend on gasoline demand forecasts. Current forecasts tend to be extremely pessimistic with respect to gasoline demand in the 1980s. Wharton Econometric Forecasting Associates predicts a 14.7 percent decline in motor-vehicle fuel demand over the decade of the 1980s; Exxon's Energy Outlook predicts a 15.6 percent decline over the decade. Is such pessimism warranted? Are there key assumptions, which if changed, could produce a substantially different picture?"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']