 ["Low-income countries typically collect taxes of between 10 to 20 percent of GDP while the average for high-income countries is more like 40 percent. In order to understand taxation, economic development, and the relationships between them, we need to think about the forces that drive the development process. Poor countries are poor for certain reasons, and these reasons can also help to explain their weakness in raising tax revenue. We begin by laying out some basic relationships regarding how tax revenue as a share of GDP varies with per capita income and with the breadth of a country's tax base. We sketch a baseline model of what determines a country's tax revenue as a share of GDP. We then turn to our primary focus: why do developing countries tax so little? We begin with factors related to the economic structure of these economies. But we argue that there is also an important role for political factors, such as weak institutions, fragmented polities, and a lack of transparency due to weak news media. Moreover, sociological and cultural factors- such as a weak sense of national identity and a poor norm for compliance- may stifle the collection of tax revenue. In each case, we suggest the need for a dynamic approach that encompasses the two-way interactions between these political, social, and cultural factors and the economy."] ['This paper exploits the 2008\xe2\x80\x9309 stamp duty holiday in the United Kingdom to estimate the incidence of a transaction tax on housing. The average reduction in the after-tax sale price is found to be around \xc2\xa3900 against the backdrop of an average tax reduction of about \xc2\xa31500. While we estimate an increase in transactions of properties affected by the tax holiday around 8%, most of this effect appears to have reversed rapidly after the policy was withdrawn, suggesting mostly a short-term retiming of transactions. The findings are calibrated to a simple bargaining model to show they imply that about sixty percent of the surplus generated by the holiday accrued to buyers.'] ['Three important aspects of development\xe2\x80\x94per capita income, state capabilities, and (the absence of) political violence\xe2\x80\x94are correlated with each other at the country level. This article discusses the causes of such development clusters and highlights two explanations: common economic, political, and social drivers and complementarities (two-way positive feedbacks). It also draws out preliminary policy implications of these patterns of development and proposes topics for further research.'] ['This essay will discuss the criticisms of the economic approach to markets offered by Michael Sandel\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x84\xa2s What Money Can\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x84\xa2t Buy. After reviewing the main arguments, the essay looks at these from three main angles. First, it relates them to different traditions of thinking about markets and their achievements that have been developed by economists. Second, it discusses the idea that markets can change values as argued by Sandel in light of recent related literature in economics. Third, it discusses some of the literature on alternatives to using the market to allocate resources and the pros and cons of these.'] ['What policies and institutions are needed to sustain long-run growth in the UK? We describe an optimistic story of the UK economy over the past 30 years. From the late 1970s, the UK reversed a century of relative decline in terms of per capita GDP with our main counterparts in the US, France and Germany. A key factor behind this improvement was an array of policy changes including an expansion of higher education and greater competition in product and labour markets. However, major weaknesses with respect to long-run investment in human capital, infrastructure and innovation remain. These are hampered by problems of short-termism and policy risk. We propose a series of radical reforms to address these problems: such as more flexibility in schooling with a new focus on disadvantage; a new architecture for national infrastructure decisions and more competition in banking.'] ['This paper argues that the possibility of bailouts to financial intermediaries distorts the supply price of capital and creates an argument for taxing financial bonuses separately from other sources of income. We develop a model of financial contracting where intermediaries compete for workers whose actions affect productivity and risk-taking in the financial sector. This derives the second-best optimum and market equilibrium. The optimal taxes that we propose increase both equity and efficiency compared to the pure market outcome.'] ['This paper uses a unique data set on more than 600,000 mortgage contracts to estimate a credit supply function which allows for risk-heterogeneity. Non-linearity is modelled using quantile regressions. We propose an instrumental variable approach in which changes in the tax treatment of housing transactions are used as an instrument for loan demand. The results are suggestive of considerable risk heterogeneity with riskier borrowers penalised more for borrowing more.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["Investments in fiscal capacity?economic institutions for tax compliance?are an important feature of economic development. This paper develops a dynamic model to study the evolution of fiscal capacity over time. We contrast a social planner's investment path with politically feasible paths. Three types of states emerge in the long run: a common-interest state where public resources are devoted to public goods, a redistributive state where additional fiscal capacity is used for transfers, and a weak state with no transfers and a low level of public goods provision. We also present some preliminary evidence consistent with the theory."] ["'The fiscal history of a people is above all an essential part of its general history. An enormous influence on the fate of nations emanates from the economic bleeding which the needs of the state necessitates, and from the use to which the results are put.' Joseph Schumpeter, \xe2\x80\x9cThe Crisis of the Tax State\xe2\x80\x9d, 1917/18, page 100. The above quote is from an article by Schumpeter which is often thought of as one of the founding articles in the field of fiscal sociology. I am fairly certain that many economists, even those who work in the field of public finance, have not engaged very much with the issues that Schumpeter raises here. It is worth bearing in mind he wrote the words above in an era when it was common for governments of the most prosperous countries to raise around 10 per cent of GDP in taxes. Even then, the question that pre-occupied Schumpeter was whether and how revenues on that scale were sustainable. This requires a proper appreciation of the economic, social and political forces that make tax raising possible."] [' Legislation to limit workplace discrimination is among the most common reforms in labor market policy of the past 50 years. Its effectiveness depends on enforcement of the legislation by state and federal agencies and, ultimately, the courts. This paper uses information on discrimination charges in the United States between 1973 and 2000 to analyze whether the number of charges filed is correlated with the method by which state judges are selected. We find evidence that states that appoint their judges have significantly fewer anti-discrimination charges being filed. Copyright 2013, Oxford University Press.'] [' This paper explores the consequences of improving property rights to facilitate the use of fixed assets as collateral, popularly attributed to the influential policy advocate Hernando de Soto. We use an equilibrium model of a credit market with moral hazard to characterize the theoretical effects and also develop a quantitative analysis using data from Sri Lanka. We show that the effects are likely to be nonlinear and heterogeneous by wealth group. They also depend on the extent of competition between lenders. There can be significant increases in profits and reductions in interest rates when credit markets are competitive. However, since these are due to reductions in moral hazard, that is, increased effort, the welfare gains tend to be modest when cost of effort is taken into account. Allowing for an extensive margin where borrowers gain access to the credit market can make these effects larger depending on the underlying wealth distribution. Copyright 2012, Oxford University Press.'] [' This article exploits data on the pattern of violence across regions and over time to estimate the impact of the peace process in Northern Ireland on house prices. After establishing a negative correlation between killings and house prices, we estimate the parameters of a Markov switching model with conflict and peace as latent states. We use the model to estimate the size of the peace dividend as captured in house price changes. (JEL D74, R23, R31)'] [" What factors determine the nature of political opportunism in local government in South India? To answer this question, we study two types of policy decisions that have been delegated to local politicians\xe2\x80\x94beneficiary selection for transfer programs and the allocation of within-village public goods. Our data on village councils in South India show that, relative to other citizens, elected councillors are more likely to be selected as beneficiaries of a large transfer program. The chief councillor's village also obtains more public goods, relative to other villages. These findings can be interpreted using a simple model of the logic of political incentives in the context that we study. Copyright 2012, Oxford University Press."] ['Based on the best available theory and evidence, the Mirrlees Review sets out a comprehensive set of proposals for tax reform. While focused on the UK, its analysis and conclusions bear directly on the policy debate in other developed countries. The Review proposes a move to a more neutral tax system. Key ingredients include adjusting the personal tax and welfare system to achieve redistribution more efficiently, imposing VAT on a broader base of consumption at a single rate, targeting environmental externalities more accurately, and aligning tax rates across all income sources while exempting the normal return to saving from tax, and introducing an allowance for corporate equity into the corporate tax system.'] ['It is widely recognized that fragile states are key symptoms of under-development in many parts of the world. Such states are incapable of delivering basic services to their citizens and political violence is commonplace. As of yet, mainstream development economics has not dealt in any systematic way with such concerns and the implications for development assistance. This paper puts forward a frame-work for analyzing fragile states and applies it to a variety of development policies in different types of states.9076:<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper uses a simple dynamic model where a government performs three functions: taxation, public spending and contract enforcement to study pathologies in resource allocation by government. A key feature of the approach is that states may invest in their future capacities to raise taxes and protect property rights. Three types of state are shown to be possible in this framework: common-interest states, redistributive states and weak states whose emergence depends on the nature of political institutions. We consider both Pigouvian and Wicksellian benchmarks against which to compare different outcomes that might arise in political equilibrium. The paper argues for a greater focus on weak government and points out that a failure to generate Wicksellian unanimity lies behind them.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This article offers a unified approach for studying political violence whether it emerges as repression or civil war. We formulate a model where an incumbent or opposition can use violence to maintain or acquire power to study which political and economic factors drive one-sided or two-sided violence (repression or civil war). The model predicts a hierarchy of violence states from peace via repression to civil war; and suggests a natural empirical approach. Exploiting only within-country variation in the data, we show that violence is associated with shocks that can affect wages and aid. As in the theory, these effects are only present where political institutions are noncohesive. Copyright 2011, Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper develops a simple model to analyse how a lack of political competition may lead to policies that hinder economic growth. We test the predictions of the model on panel data for the US states. In these data, we find robust evidence that lack of political competition in a state is associated with anti-growth policies: higher taxes, lower capital spending, and a reduced likelihood of using rightto- work laws. We also document a strong link between low political competition and low income growth. Copyright , Wiley-Blackwell.'] ["This paper analyses Labour's record on monetary policy and the record of the MPC which it created. The paper begins by discussing the conceptual framework and institutions behind inflation targeting as it operates in the UK. We then discuss the successes that it enjoyed up to 2007 and debate the lessons that are being learned as a consequence of the experience since then. We then raise some of the formidable challenges that UK monetary policy must now face up to including maintaining the credibility of the inflation targeting regime in the face of greater interdependence between monetary and fiscal policy, and between monetary policy and support to the banking system and financial markets."] [' The absence of state capacities to raise revenue and to support markets is a key factor in explaining the persistence of weak states. This paper reports on an ongoing project to investigate the incentive to invest in such capacities. The paper sets out a simple analytical structure in which state capacities are modeled as forward looking investments by government. The approach highlights some determinants of state building including the risk of external or internal conflict, the degree of political instability, and dependence on natural resources. Throughout, we link these state capacity investments to patterns of development and growth. Copyright 2010 The Econometric Society.'] [' The question of who guards the guards is intimately connected with broader questions of state capacity and the establishment of a monopoly of violence in society, something which is often viewed as the defining feature of the modern state. But to establish such a monopoly, civilian rulers need not only to build an effective military, but also to control it. In this paper we study how governments may solve this problem when they recognize that their decisions to build a strong army may have ramifications for subsequent coups. (JEL: H11, H56) (c) 2010 by the European Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Economists generally assume that the state has sufficient institutional capacity to support markets and levy taxes. This paper develops a framework where "policy choices" in market regulation and taxation are constrained by past investments in legal and fiscal capacity. It studies the economic and political determinants of such investments, demonstrating that legal and fiscal capacity are typically complements. The results show that, among other things, common interest public goods, such as fighting external wars, as well as political stability and inclusive political institutions, are conducive to building state capacity. Some correlations in cross-country data are consistent with the theory. (JEL D72, E62, H11, H20, P14)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper looks at the voting patterns of internal and external members of the MPC to investigate how far there are differences between insiders and outsiders. We make three contributions. First, we assess the extent to which the Bank of England internally generated forecasts explain the MPC members' voting decisions. This is important as generating forecasts on a quarterly basis is a key part of the process used by the Bank of England. The forecast for inflation is made public in the Inflation Report while the output gap forecast is not. Second, we use a random coefficient method of estimation in which the parameters of the interest rate rule are allowed, but not required, to be different across members. Third, we find evidence of some heterogeneity in the intercept, a measure of experience on the MPC and the interest rate smoothing parameter, but no significant differences in the members' reaction to the forecasts of inflation and the output gap.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['Effective provision of public goods is one of the key determinants of quality of life and also an important plank of poverty reduction strategy. Improving public service delivery is therefore one of the biggest challenges. In this paper we discuss some ideas from the emerging literature on public organizations and political economy that breaks out of the standard market-government dichotomy with a special focus on the role of non-state actors, such as non-governmental organizations (NGOs).'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The article builds a simple model to investigate how different types of armed conflict shape fiscal capacity: the state's ability to raise revenue from taxes. It starts from the simple observation that external war tends to generate common interests across groups in society, whereas internal, civil war entails deep conflicting interests across groups. Our model predicts that--compared to a society without conflict--civil wars lead to smaller investments in fiscal capacity, whereas prospects of external war generally lead to larger investments. Correlations in international data on conflicts and taxation are, by and large, consistent with these predictions. (JEL: H10, N40, O10) (c) 2008 by the European Economic Association."] ["The role of citizens' initiatives figures prominently in contemporary debates on constitutional change. It is widely believed that permitting initiatives should improve the congruence between citizen preferences and policy outcomes across the spectrum of issues on which initiatives may be placed. This paper investigates the theoretical basis for this view. It begins by identifying three basic reasons why electoral competition may not, by itself, be sufficient to ensure congruence on specific issues. Each reason relies critically on the fact that citizens have only one vote to cast for candidates who have responsibility for choosing a bundle of issues. It then shows how allowing initiatives permits the unbundling of specific issues which improves congruence when the three reasons apply. Important caveats to this logic are also presented."] [' This paper develops an approach to studying how bias in favor of one party due to the pattern of electoral districting affects policy choice. We tie a commonly used measure of electoral bias to the theory of party competition and show how this affects party strategy in theory. The usefulness of the approach is illustrated using data on local government in England. The results suggest that reducing electoral bias leads parties to moderate their policies. (c) 2007 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology..'] ['This paper explores the logic of fiscal restraints in a political agency model with both moral hazard and adverse selection. The role of the political process is both to discipline incumbents who may act against the public interest and to sort in those politicians who are most likely act in voters\xe2\x80\x99interests. We use the model to examine the optimality of ine\xc2\xa2 cient taxation, limits on the size of government, increasing trans- parency, and yardstick competition. Some conclusions are surprising. For example, we show that some forms of fiscal restraint can only be desirable when incumbents are su\xc2\xa2 ciently likely to be benevolent.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The aim of the New Political Economy is to understand important issues that arise in the policy sphere. -super-1  It is not, as is occasionally hinted, an effort by economists to colonise political science. Rather, the main concern is to extend the competence of economists to analyse issues that require some facility with economic and political decision making. At the margin, the New Political Economy reverses the split that occurred between the disciplines of economics and political science at the end of the nineteenth century. This article is not a survey of the field. It is a selective and personal view of some of the themes in the literature. It is framed more as a manifesto presented in the hope that somebody who encounters these ideas for the first time here might be tempted to delve further into the literature and even contribute to it. Copyright 2007 The Author(s). Journal compilation Royal Economic Society 2007.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['It has long been recognized that the media play an essential role in government accountability. Even in the absence of censorship, however, the government may influence news content by maintaining a "cozy" relationship with the media. This paper develops a model of democratic politics in which media capture is endogenous. The model offers insights into the features of the media market that determine the ability of the government to exercise such capture and hence to influence political outcomes. (JEL D72, D73, L82)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper proposes a simple framework to study incentives and matching in the market for teachers. The framework is used to investigate the consequences of introducing incentive pay for teachers when contracts have both a matching and an incentive effect. Our analysis suggests that school competition and teacher incentives cannot be studied in isolation from one another. (JEL: D73, I20, J45, L31 (c) 2006 by the European Economic Association.'] ['One of the main problems in pension policy is to develop an institutional framework that guarantees that public and private pensions promises are kept. This paper discusses how the governance of public and private pensions is key to making such promises credible. It argues that credibility concerns undermine the case for earnings-related pensions run by the state and private defined benefit plans.'] ['A unifying theme in the literature on organizations such as public bureaucracies and private nonprofits is the importance of mission, as opposed to profit, as an organizational goal. Such mission-oriented organizations are frequently staffed by motivated agents who subscribe to the mission. This paper studies incentives in such contexts and emphasizes the role of matching the mission preferences of principals and agents in increasing organizational efficiency. Matching economizes on the need for high-powered incentives. It can also, however, entrench bureaucratic conservatism and resistance to innovations. The framework developed in this paper is applied to school competition, incentives in the public sector and in private nonprofits, and the interdependence of incentives and productivity between the private for-profit sector and the mission-oriented sector through occupational choice.'] ['Almost every major episode of economic change over the past 200 years of political history has been associated with key personalities coming to power with a commitment to these changes. But if such dynamic leaders are so important, then we need to understand how they come to hold the reins of power. This outcome could be viewed as largely the product of random events colored by idiosyncratic personalities and chance encounters. However, at least some role must be given to the underlying institutional structure, which has a more systematic influence on who rises to the top. Thus, it is essential to understand how political selection works.'] [' We use household and village survey data from South India to examine who participates in village meetings called by elected local governments, and what effect these meetings have on beneficiary selection for welfare programs. Our main finding is that it is the more disadvantaged social groups who attend village meetings and that holding such meeting simproves the targeting of resources towards the neediest groups. (JEL: H40, H42, O20) Copyright (c) 2005 The European Economic Association.'] [" This paper uses village and household survey data from South India to examine how political geography and politician identity impacts on public good provision. We provide evidence that the nature of this relationship varies by type of public good. For high spillover public goods residential proximity to elected representative matters. In contrast, for low spillover public goods sharing the politician's group identity is what matters. (JEL: D78, H40) Copyright (c) 2004 The European Economic Association."] [' This paper investigates whether the industrial relations climate in Indian states has affected the pattern of manufacturing growth in the period 1958-1992. We show that states which amended the Industrial Disputes Act in a pro-worker direction experienced lowered output, employment, investment, and productivity in registered or formal manufacturing. In contrast, output in unregistered or informal manufacturing increased. Regulating in a pro-worker direction was also associated with increases in urban poverty. This suggests that attempts to redress the balance of power between capital and labor can end up hurting the poor. \xc2\xa9 2004 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] [' This paper looks at the theory behind the idea that paying politicians better will improve their performance. The paper lays out a political agency model with adverse selection and moral hazard where politicians are subject to two-period term limits. This model provides a number of predictions about how the pay of politicians affects agency problems. We also consider what happens when the pool of politicians is endogenous. The main ideas in the model are confronted with data on U.S. governors. (JEL: D72, J33) Copyright (c) 2004 The European Economic Association.'] [' This paper contrasts direct election with political appointment of regulators. When regulators are appointed, regulatory policy becomes bundled with other policy issues the appointing politicians are responsible for. Because voters have only one vote to cast and regulatory issues are not salient for most voters, there are electoral incentives to respond to stakeholder interests. If regulators are elected, their stance on regulation is the only salient issue so that the electoral incentive is to run a pro-consumer candidate. Using panel data on regulatory outcomes from U.S. states, we find new evidence in favor of the idea that elected states are more pro-consumer in their regulatory policies. (JEL: H1, K2) Copyright (c) 2003 The European Economic Association.'] [' The public choice literature urges the welfare economist to anticipate how political forces will shape the levels of new policy instruments when government intervenes in a new way. This paper argues that the welfare economist should also recognize that new interventions may impact the politically determined levels of existing policy instruments. It shows how the introduction of a new instrument can lead to shifts in political coalitions or compromises in existing areas of conflict that can produce significant changes in existing policies. Such spillover effects can provide new arguments for introducing particular policy interventions. Even a policy instrument without an obvious welfare economic rationale can change voter coalitions and shift the policy equilibrium in a welfare improving direction. Copyright 2003 by Kluwer Academic Publishers'] [" This paper discusses a theoretical framework to study the issues of competition and incentives without relying on the standard profit-oriented 'market' model in the context of the debates about public-service reform in the UK. It uses the idea that the production of public services coheres around a mission, and discusses how decentralized service provision can raise productivity by matching motivated workers to their preferred missions. Our focus on competition and incentives cuts across traditional debates about public versus private ownership and allows for the possibility of involving private non-profit organizations. We also address concerns about the consequences of allowing more flexibility in mission design and competition on inequality. Copyright 2003, Oxford University Press."] ["The Millennium Development Goals--global targets that the world's leaders set at the Millennium Summit in September 2000--are an ambitious agenda for reducing poverty. As a central plank, these goals include halving the proportion of people living below a dollar a day from around 30 percent of the developing world's population in 1990 to 15 percent by 2015--a reduction in the absolute number of poor of around one billion. This paper examines what economic research can tell us about how to fulfill these goals. It begins by discussing poverty trends on a global scale--where the poor are located in the world and how their numbers have been changing over time. It then discusses the relationship of economic growth and income distribution to poverty reduction. Finally, it suggests an evidence-based agenda for poverty reduction in the developing world."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['A rich array of institutional diversity makes the United States an excellent place to study the relationship between political institutions and public policy outcomes. This essay has three main aims. It reviews empirical evidence on the relationship between institutional rules, political representation and policy outcomes; it aims to place the literature into a broader context of theoretical and empirical work in political economy. Second, it develops a parallel empirical analysis that updates studies in the literature and reexamines some of the claims, in a setting unified in terms of policy outcomes and period under study. Third, it develops new directions for research, presenting some novel exploratory results.'] [' The determinants of government responsiveness to its citizens are a key issue in political economy. Here, we develop a model based on the solution of political agency problems. Having a more informed and politically active electorate strengthens incentives for governments to be responsive. This suggests that there is a role for both democratic institutions and mass media in ensuring that the preferences of citizens are reflected in policy. The ideas behind the model are tested on panel data from India. We show that state governments are more responsive to falls in food production and crop flood damage via public food distribution and calamity relief expenditure where newspaper circulation is higher and electoral accountability greater. \xc2\xa9 2001 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] [' There has been a dramatic change in the division of responsibility between the state and the private sector for the delivery of public goods and services in recent years with an increasing trend toward contracting out to the private sector and "public-private partnerships." This paper analyzes how ownership matters in public good provision. We show that if contracts are incomplete then the ownership of a public good should lie with a party that values the benefits generated by it relatively more. This is true regardless of whether this party is also the key investor, or other aspects of the technology. \xc2\xa9 2001 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] [' This paper studies the impact of lobbying on political competition and policy outcomes in a framework that integrates the citizen-candidate model of representative democracy with the menu-auction model of lobbying. Positive and normative issues are analysed. On the positive side, lobbying need have little or no effect on policy outcomes because voters can restrict the influence of lobbyists by supporting candidates with offsetting policy preferences. On the normative side, coordination failure among lobbyists can result in Pareto inefficient policy choices. In addition, by creating rents to holding office, lobbying can lead to "excessive" entry into electoral competition. Copyright 2001 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited'] ['This paper provides an overview of the link between policy and economic growth. It stresses that while growth, as measured and discussed, is a macroeconomic phenomenon, the best available evidence of policy effectiveness is typically from studies using micro data. It also reiterates the message that divergence between private and social returns is a key part of the evidence needed to discuss what kinds of policy intervention are desirable.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" There are numerous empirical studies that exploit variation in policies over space and time in the U.S. federal system. If state policy making is purposeful action responsive to economic and political conditions within the state then it is necessary to identify and control for the forces that lead to these policy changes. This paper investigates the implications of policy endogeneity for a specific policy context--workers' compensation benefits. We contrast different methods of estimation and their pros and cons in this context."] [" In recent times there has been a renewed interest in relationships between redistribution, growth, and welfare. Land reforms in developing countries are often aimed at improving the poor's access to land, although their effectiveness has often been hindered by political constraints on implementation. In this paper we use panel data on the sixteen main Indian states from 1958 to 1992 to consider whether the large volume of legislated land reforms have had an appreciable impact on growth and poverty. We argue that such land reforms have been associated with poverty reduction. \xc2\xa9 2000 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology"] ['We employ a unique data source to examine the incidence of sales taxes. The main idea is to take information on the prices of specific commodities in different U.S. cities and to examine the extent to which differences in tax rates and bases are reflected in prices, controlling for other factors (such as costs). We find a surprising variety of shifting patterns. For some commodities, the after-tax price increases by exactly the amount of the tax, a result consistent with the standard competitive model. However, taxes on other commodities are overshifted--an increase in tax revenue of one dollar per unit increases the price by more than one dollar.'] [" The use of state aids to industry is a poorly understood part of competition policy. Currently, the EU Commission presumes that state aids distort competition, yet it approves 98% of applications, often for social or distributional reasons. We argue that proper regulation of state aids should focus on two issues, the externalities generated and the inefficiencies arising from failures in competition between governments. We thus develop a new framework for EU policy and compare its implications with the existing practice of the EU Commission. Copyright Centre for Economic Policy Research, Centre for Economic Studies, Maison des Sciences de l'Homme 1999."] ['A key dimension of differentiation between health care systems concerns the relative role of the public and private sectors in delivering care. Even in countries, such as Britain, that have relied on a national health care system for 50 years, there has always been an active private sector, catering to those who do not wish to use the National Health Service (NHS). For the most part, these are individuals who also smooth their medical payments by purchasing private insurance. If they become sick, then they consume treatment in the private rather than the public sector. This report studies the demand for private health insurance in the UK using data from the British Social Attitudes (BSA) survey. According to this, around 14% of British households have private health insurance, with a roughly equal split between individual and employer provision. Here, we are mainly concerned with determinants of demand for individual purchases. Our specific focus is on how this demand is related to aspects of NHS performance such as waiting-lists and measures of satisfaction with the NHS in the BSA data. While measures such as waiting-lists are frequently discussed as barometers of NHS performance, little evidence exists of their actual role in insurance demand. There are good reasons why we would expect that private insurance demand would respond to the state of the NHS. Private insurance provides a means by which individuals can reduce their reliance on the NHS as a source of health care. It is natural for them to take such a course if they are unhappy with aspects of the NHS. If the perceived or real quality of NHS provision declines, then individuals may choose to go private in greater numbers. We look for evidence that private insurance is fulfilling this function. Our main finding is that there is a positive association between the purchase of private health insurance and length of local NHS waiting-lists.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['A common feature of federal systems is that tax bases are joint property. Consequently, state and federal tax setting decisions are interdependent. Our aim here is to put forward a rudimentary theoretical analysis of this phenomenon, and to use the theory as a framework for econometrically estimating the magnitude of the responses. We find that when the federal government increases taxes, there is a significant positive response of state taxes. For example, a 10-cent per gallon increase in the federal tax rate on gasoline leads to a 3.2-cent increase in the state tax rate.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" This paper studies the efficiency of policy choice in representative democracies. It extends the citizen-candidate model of democratic policy-making to a dynamic environment. Equilibrium policy choices are shown to be efficient in the sense that, in each period, conditional on future policies being selected through the democratic process, there exists no alternative current policy choices which can raise the expected utilities of all citizens. However, policies that would be declared efficient by standard economic criteria are not necessarily adopted in political equilibrium. The paper argues that these divergencies are legitimately viewed as 'political failures.' Copyright 1998 by American Economic Association."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["The U.K.'s experience with the poll tax reminds us that even in an economy with a relatively well developed detection and legal system, one cannot take tax compliance for granted. The experience of the poll tax provides a unique opportunity to study many dimensions of tax compliance. We model nonpayment rates in a short panel of data on the 366 English local authorities. The transparent observability of individual and aggregate liabilities makes reliable measurement of rates of nonpayment possible. Moreover, these rates rose to unprecedented levels as well as exhibiting considerable variation across authorities. This, together with the variation in local taxes both between districts and over time, creates an ideal opportunity for empirical investigation. Our empirical specification allows us to investigate the determinants of compliance as a function of authority characteristics from census and other geographical data. Moreover, the analysis takes seriously the possibility of neighbourhood influences across authority boundaries. Our empirical results confirm the idea that higher taxes lead to larger compliance problems and that attempts to enforce compliance have a positive effect. Neighbourhood effects on non-compliance were less conspicuous, figuring significantly, if at all, only in the final year.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' Since farmers in developing countries must make sunk investments to produce perennial crops, governments, in the guise of state-run marketing boards, face constraints on maximal sustainable price which can be charged by a marketing board assuming that "punishments" involve reversion to subsistence by untrusting farmers. This maximal price balances concerns about revenue extraction against the incentive of governments to cheat by capitalizing on sunk investments. Copyright 1997 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd'] [' This paper develops an approach to the study of democratic policy-making where politicians are selected by the people from those citizens who present themselves as candidates for public office. The approach has a number of attractive features. First, it is a conceptualization of a pure form of representative democracy in which government is by, as well as of, the people. Second, the model is analytically tractable, being able to handle multidimensional issue and policy spaces very naturally. Third, it provides a vehicle for answering normative questions about the performance of representative democracy. Copyright 1997, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [' Economies that experience rapid growth also experience major changes in their consumption patterns, particularly for consumer durables. This paper studies the diffusion of durables in Taiwan between 1977 and 1991. The authors focus on the link between household accumulation of durables and participation in informal financial institutions. While growth in per capita income in Taiwan has been great, many households still rely on traditional forms of finance. The authors test the idea that rotating savings and credit associations, which are found worldwide, exist to lower the cost of saving for durables. Their analysis finds evidence of that link. Copyright 1996 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The design credit and risk institutions in low-income countries provides one of the most exciting testing grounds for theories of contracting with imperfect information and limited enforcement. This paper reviews some of the recent literature, with a special focus on nonmarket institutions that cope with risk and provide credit. This literature attempts to bring together insights from economic theory, especially information economics, contract theory, and mechanism design theory. However, it is also applied, being motivated by the circumstance of the poor countries that their authors have visited and studied.'] [' This paper provides a comprehensive treatment of a basic income maintenance problem. It stresses the impact that imperfect information has on program design. First, the authors are able to unify the theoretical literature on the income maintenance problem. Second, they examine the impact of allowing the government to impose workfare on recipients of income support. The solution is strikingly simple. It separates the poor into two categories, with the lower income groups subject to workfare while facing a 100 percent marginal tax rate on earnings. The second group does no public work and is offered a benefit schedule that taxes earnings at a lower rate. Copyright 1995 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] [' This paper examines the link between property rights and investment incentives. The author develops three theoretical arguments based on security of tenure, using land as collateral and obtaining gains from trade. The paper then presents empirical evidence from two regions in Ghana. The author investigates the possibility that rights are endogenous, with farmers making improvements to enhance their land rights. Finally, he suggests tests for which of the theories might explain the results. Copyright 1995 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper analyzes the behavior of U.S. governors from 1950 to 1986 to investigate a reputation-building model of political behavior. The authors argue that differences in the behavior of governors who face a binding term limit and those who are able to run again provides a source of variation in discount rates that can be used to test a political agency model. They find evidence that taxes, spending, and other policy instruments respond to a binding term limit if a Democrat is in office. The result is a fiscal cycle in term-limit states that lowers state income when the term limit binds. Copyright 1995, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [" This paper develops a model of the political economy of tax-setting in a multijurisdictional world where voters' choices and incumbent behavior are determined simultaneously. Voters are assumed to make comparisons between jurisdictions to overcome political agency problems. This forces incumbents into a (yardstick) competition in which they care about what other incumbents are doing. The authors provide a theoretical framework and empirical evidence using U.S. state data from 1960 to 1988. The results are encouraging to the view that vote-seeking and tax-setting are tied together through the nexus of yardstick competition. Copyright 1995 by American Economic Association."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper examines the allocative performance of rotating savings and credit associations (ROSCAS), a financial institution that is observed worldwide. The authors develop a model in which individuals save for an indivisible good and study ROSCAS that distribute funds using random allocation and bidding. The allocations achieved by the two types of ROSCA are compared with that achieved by a credit market and with efficient allocations. Neither type of ROSCA is efficient and individuals are better off with a credit market than a bidding ROSCA, a random ROSCA may yield higher ex ante expected utility than a credit market. Copyright 1994 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] [" Economists now appreciate that resource allocation in less economically developed economies is profoundly influenced by nonfirm economic institutions. However, the authors' theories of nonfirm institutions often suggest different answers to many questions, including those of policy. This paper illustrates a method for discriminating between alternative theories using data from German credit cooperatives from nineteenth and early twentieth century Germany. The authors build a model of credit cooperatives designed to provide monitoring incentives and test this using nineteenth century data. Copyright 1994, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper presents a simple model to evaluate alternative payment schemes for tax inspectors in the presence of corruption. The authors consider problems of both moral hazard, whic h arises because taking bribes cannot be observed without costly monitoring, and adverse selection, since not all potential tax inspectors can be identified as being honest or dishonest. The autho rs identify three wage regimes. First, one could pay the same wage that a tax inspector could earn elsewhere--his reservation wage. Second, one could pay a wage which solves the moral hazard problem, i.e. deters bribery. This they call an efficiency wage, by analogy with recent models examined in macroeconomics. Third, the government could pay a wage below the reservation wage, at which onl y the dishonest become tax inspectors--the capitulation wage. The authors make precise the conditions under which each yields the greatest amount of tax revenues, net of administrative costs. Copyright 1993 by Royal Economic Society.'] [' This paper analyzes the economic role and performance of a type of financial institution that is observed worldwide: rotating savings and credit associations. Using a model in which individuals save for an indivisible durable consumption good, the authors study rotating savings and credit associations that distribute funds using random allocation and bidding. Each type of rotating savings and credit association allows individuals without access to credit markets to improve their welfare but, under a reasonable assumption on preferences, random allocation is preferred when individuals have identical tastes. This conclusion need not hold when individuals are heterogeneous. The authors also discuss the sustainability of rotating savings and credit associations given the possibility of default. Copyright 1993 by American Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper establishes comparative statics results for an oligopoly model with strategic commitment. Firms compete in two stages. In the first stage, firms decide on strategic cost-reducing R&amp;D; investment, whereas they choose output in the second stage. Taking an excise tax/subsidy as a shift parameter in the second stage game, the short-run as well as long-run effects on output, cost-reducing R&amp;D; investment, and second-best welfare will be examined. The crucial role played by the strategic substitutability of outputs as well as cost-reducing R&amp;D; investments is clarified, and a variant of the Le Chatelier-Samuelson principle in the authors' game-theoretic model is obtained. Copyright 1992 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' It is argued that free provision of publicly provided goods or services is rarely optimal. The argument is simple: if optimal lump-sum transfers are not available, then the government will wish to use all handles which provide information about the distribution of welfare. One such handle may be the usage of publicly provided goods and services. As long as this is not uniform, then it is a potentially valuable index for redistributive purposes. This is illustrated using two models--one in which usage of the publicly provided good is legislated by the government and another in which it is determined in part by the private costs of consuming public services. Copyright 1991 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper contrasts the use of means-tested and universal schemes in the alleviation of poverty. Using a class of poverty measures, the authors illustrate the trade-off from the fact that means testing is costly to both the government and the claimant, while universal provision entails a leakage to the nonpoor. The paper provides numerical, as well as analytical, results. Copyright 1990 by The London School of Economics and Political Science.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper uses a model of managers' behavior under uncertainty to analyze the effects of limited liability of optimal profits taxes. In particular, it addresses the question of whether the benefits of limited liability should be taxed. The authors show that an increase in profits taxation yields a welfare improvement under limited liability. Hence, the existence of limited liability provides an argument for engaging in corrective taxation over and above that implied by market incompleteness. Copyright 1990 by Royal Economic Society."] [" This note proposes a definition of luxury and necessity that is useful when utility functions are cardinal. The author offers an exposition using the profit function representation of preferences and also gives some motivation. Applications are found in the theory of the consumer in an intertemporal setting, commodity price stabilization theory, and a consumer's decision to hedge in a futures market. Copyright 1989 by Royal Economic Society."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper examines the motivation for States to intervene in the provisions that their citizens make for ill-health. The author examines arguments that relate to imperfect information and a kind of misperception which he calls evaluator relativity. He identifies ex post regret as being the force that may justify intervention that helps to sidestep some of the problems that arise when expected utility is invoked as a welfare criterion. Copyright 1989 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This note looks at the effect of rationing on supply response in a model of an agent who both produces and consumes. The author shows th at if the Le Catelier principle is to be violated, it must be because income effects are powerful; since in their absence the supply respon se is always positive. The model here is shown to be related to a model of entrepreneurship and income effects in the theory of the firm analyzed by Jan de V. Graaff some years ago. Copyright 1988 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper formulates the problem of the optimal pattern of food subsidies in a general setting, where the objective is to minimize a class of poverty indices within the framework of the mo dern public finance theory. Taking explicit account of the budget con straint and preferences and technologies, the authors derive rules fo r retargetting food subsidies to reduce poverty. Many operational rul es of thumb appear as special cases of the general results. The analy sis thus provides not only the microfoundations of these operational rules, but also their appropriate generalizations when the conditions under which they arise are not fulfilled. Copyright 1988 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper reviews some issues relevant to the delivery of public services. It reviews some of the debates and flags some issues that are significant worldwide, especially in Africa. It emphasises how the debate has moved along in terms of defining the relative responsibilities of the public and private sectors for delivering public services. It also discusses the role of incentives among politicians and bureaucrats in service delivery. In a broader context, there is a need to understand the role of mission-driven delivery and the role of competition in public services. The paper argues for a focus on accountability in part through rigorous evaluation of service delivery and basing policy on sound first-principles. Copyright The author 2007. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Centre for the Study of African Economies. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org, Oxford University Press.']