 ['Sharp nonparametric bounds are derived for counterfactual demands and Hicksian compensating and equivalent variations. These "i-bounds" refine and extend earlier results of Blundell, Browning, and Crawford (2008). We show that their bounds are sharp under the Weak Axiom of Revealed Preference (WARP) since they do not require transitivity. The new bounds are sharp under the Strong Axiom of Revealed Preference (SARP). By requiring transitivity they can be used to bound welfare measures. The new bounds on welfare measures are shown to be operationalized through algorithms that are easy to implement. (JEL D04, D11)'] ['The UK has enacted a number of reforms to the structure of disability benefits that has made it a major case study for other countries thinking of reform. The introduction of Incapacity Benefit in 1995 coincided with a strong decline in disability benefit expenditure, reversing previous sharp increases. From 2008 the replacement of Incapacity Benefit with Employment and Support Allowance was intended to reduce spending further. We bring together administrative and survey data over the period and highlight key differences in receipt of disability benefits by age, sex, and health. These disability benefit reforms and the trends in receipt are also put into the context of broader trends in health and employment by education and sex. We document a growing proportion of claimants in any age group with mental and behavioral disorders as their principal health condition. We also show the decline in the number of older working age men receiving disability benefits to have been partially offset by growth in the number of younger women receiving these benefits. We speculate on the impact of disability reforms on employment.'] ['This paper develops a new approach to the estimation of consumer demand models with unobserved heterogeneity subject to revealed preference inequality restrictions. Particular attention is given to nonseparable heterogeneity. The inequality restrictions are used to identify bounds on counterfactual demand. A nonparametric estimator for these bounds is developed and asymptotic properties are derived. An empirical application using data from the UK Family Expenditure Survey illustrates the usefulness of the methods.'] ['With aging populations and increased demands on government revenue, countries need to boost employment and earnings. Tax policy should focus on labor market entry and retirement. Those are the points where labor supply is most responsive to tax incentives, which can enhance the flow into work of people leaving school and women with young children and can prolong employment among older workers. Human capital policy has a complementary role in improving the payoff to work and ensuring that earnings hold up longer over a lifetime.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The control function approach (Heckman and Robb (1985)) in a system of linear simultaneous equations provides a convenient procedure to estimate one of the functions in the system using reduced form residuals from the other functions as additional regressors. The conditions on the structural system under which this procedure can be used in nonlinear and nonparametric simultaneous equations has thus far been unknown. In this paper, we define a new property of functions called control function separability and show it provides a complete characterization of the structural systems of simultaneous equations in which the control function procedure is valid.'] ["This paper uses individual data on employment and wages to shed light on the UK\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x84\xa2s productivity puzzle. It finds that workforce composition cannot explain the reduction in wages and hence productivity that we observe; instead, real wages have fallen significantly within jobs. Why? One possibility we investigate is higher labour supply in this recession than in the past. Another is lower trade union membership. Alternatively, it might be driven by a fall in productivity as a result of a lower capital-labour ratio. We cannot tell whether productivity is driving wages or vice versa, but understanding why wages have fallen within jobs is at the heart of the UK's productivity puzzle.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The control function approach is a convenient method of estimation in simultaneous equation systems. This requires that the system can be expressed in triangular form with variables satisfying a conditional mean independence restriction. Linear simultaneous models with additive errors can always be expressed in this form. However, in nonlinear nonadditive simultaneous systems, conditional independence requires a strong additional restriction known as control function separability. We argue that nonadditive models are a key characteristic of simultaneous models of economic behavior with unobserved heterogeneity. We review alternative "system" approaches and document the biases that occur when the control function approach is used inappropriately.'] ['This paper concerns the decomposition of income risk into permanent and transitory components using repeated cross-section data on income and consumption. Our focus is on the detection of changes in the magnitudes of variances of permanent and transitory risks. A new approximation to the optimal consumption growth rule is developed. Evidence from a dynamic stochastic simulation is used to show that this approximation can provide a robust method for decomposing income risk in a nonstationary environment. We examine robustness to unobserved heterogeneity in consumption growth and to unobserved heterogeneity in income growth. We use this approach to investigate the growth in income inequality in the UK in the 1980s.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The optimal design of low-income support is examined using a structural labour supply model. The approach incorporates unobserved heterogeneity, fixed costs of work, childcare costs and the detailed non-convexities of the tax and transfer system. The analysis considers purely Pareto improving reforms and also optimal design under social welfare functions with different degrees of inequality aversion. We explore the gains from tagging and also examine the case for the use of hours-contingent payments. Using the tax schedule for lone parents in the U.K. as our policy environment, the results point to a reformed non-linear tax schedule with tax credits only optimal for low earners. The results also suggest a welfare improving role for tagging according to child age and for hours-contingent payments, although the case for the latter is mitigated when hours cannot be monitored or recorded accurately by the tax authorities. Copyright 2012, Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper develops a new method for estimating a demand function and the welfare consequences of price changes. The method is applied to gasoline demand in the U.S. and is applicable to other goods. The method uses shape restrictions derived from economic theory to improve the precision of a nonparametric estimate of the demand function. Using data from the U.S. National Household Travel Survey, we show that the restrictions are consistent with the data on gasoline demand and remove the anomalous behavior of a standard nonparametric estimator. Our approach provides new insights about the price responsiveness of gasoline demand and the way responses vary across the income distribution. We find that price responses vary nonmonotonically with income. In particular, we find that low- and high-income consumers are less responsive to changes in gasoline prices than are middle-income consumers. We find similar results using comparable data from Canada.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Based on the best available theory and evidence, the Mirrlees Review sets out a comprehensive set of proposals for tax reform. While focused on the UK, its analysis and conclusions bear directly on the policy debate in other developed countries. The Review proposes a move to a more neutral tax system. Key ingredients include adjusting the personal tax and welfare system to achieve redistribution more efficiently, imposing VAT on a broader base of consumption at a single rate, targeting environmental externalities more accurately, and aligning tax rates across all income sources while exempting the normal return to saving from tax, and introducing an allowance for corporate equity into the corporate tax system.'] [' In this paper we propose a systematic way of examining the importance of the extensive and the intensive margins of labor supply in order to explain the overall movements in total hours of work over time. We show how informative bounds can be developed on each of these margins. We apply this analysis to the evolution of hours of work in the US, the UK, and France and show that both the extensive and intensive margins matter in explaining changes in total hours.'] ['This paper examines the role of evidence in drawing up the recommendations for tax reform in the Mirrlees Review . The arguments are organised loosely under five related headings: (i) Key margins of adjustment. (ii) Measurement of effective tax rates. (iii) The importance of information and complexity. (iv) Evidence on the size of responses. (v) Implications from theory for tax design. Although the Mirrlees Review focuses on all aspects of tax reform, the focus is this paper is on the taxation of earnings with some examples drawn from the taxation of consumption and savings.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper presents an analysis of the trends in inequality across income, earnings and consumption in Britain since 1978. It documents the episodic nature of inequality growth over this period largely dominated by the inequality 'boom' in earnings inequality of the 1980s. It builds a consistent picture across these key measures of inequality to provide a coherent link between the microeconomic and macroeconomic analysis of the evolution of inequality. (Copyright: Elsevier)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" How does firm entry affect innovation incentives in incumbent firms? Microdata suggest that there is heterogeneity across industries. Specifically, incumbent productivity growth and patenting is positively correlated with lagged greenfield foreign firm entry in technologically advanced industries, but not in laggard industries. In this paper we provide evidence that these correlations arise from a causal effect predicted by Schumpeterian growth theory-the threat of technologically advanced entry spurs innovation incentives in sectors close to the technology frontier, where successful innovation allows incumbents to survive the threat, but discourages innovation in laggard sectors, where the threat reduces incumbents' expected rents from innovating. We find that the empirical patterns hold using rich micro panel data for the United Kingdom. We control for the endogeneity of entry by exploiting major European and U.K. policy reforms, and allow for endogeneity of additional factors. We complement the analysis for foreign entry with evidence for domestic entry and entry through imports. Copyright by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] [" Significant departures from log normality are observed in income data, in violation of Gibrat's law. We show empirically that the distribution of consumption expenditures across households is, within cohorts, closer to log normal than the distribution of income. We explain this empirical result by showing that the logic of Gibrat's law applies not to total income, but to permanent income and to marginal utility. (c) 2009 by The University of Chicago. All rights reserved.."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper reviews some of the most popular policy evaluation methods in empirical microeconomics: social experiments, natural experiments, matching, instrumental variables, discontinuity design, and control functions. It discusses identification of traditionally used average parameters and more complex distributional parameters. The adequacy, assumptions, and data requirements of each approach are discussed, drawing on empirical evidence from the education and employment policy evaluation literature. A workhorse simulation model of education and earnings is used throughout the paper to discuss and illustrate each approach. The full set of STATA data sets and do-files are available free online and can be used to reproduce all estimation results.'] [" Optimal tax rules are used to evaluate the optimality of taxation for lone mothers in Germany and Britain. The theoretical model is combined with elasticities derived from the structural estimation of lone mothers' labour supply. For both countries we do not find that in-work credits with marginal tax rates are optimal. However we show that when the government has a low taste for redistribution, out-of-work transfers and transfer for the working poor are very similar, implying very low marginal tax rates. Further, the current tax and transfer systems in both countries are shown to be optimal only if governments have a much higher welfare value for income received by the non-workers than the working poor. Copyright \xef\xbf\xbd Institute of Fiscal Studies. Journal compilation \xef\xbf\xbd Royal Economic Society 2009."] [' This paper uses revealed preference inequalities to provide the tightest possible (best) nonparametric bounds on predicted consumer responses to price changes using consumer-level data over a finite set of relative price changes. These responses are allowed to vary nonparametrically across the income distribution. This is achieved by combining the theory of revealed preference with the semiparametric estimation of consumer expansion paths (Engel curves). We label these expansion path based bounds on demand responses as E-bounds. Deviations from revealed preference restrictions are measured by preference perturbations which are shown to usefully characterize taste change and to provide a stochastic environment within which violations of revealed preference inequalities can be assessed. Copyright 2008 The Econometric Society.'] ['This paper examines the link between income and consumption inequality. We create panel data on consumption for the Panel Study of Income Dynamics using an imputation procedure based on food demand estimates from the Consumer Expenditure Survey. We document a disjuncture between income and consumption inequality over the 1980s and show that it can be explained by changes in the persistence of income shocks. We find some partial insurance of permanent shocks, especially for the college educated and those near retirement. We find full insurance of transitory shocks except among poor households. Taxes, transfers, and family labor supply play an important role in insuring permanent shocks. (JEL D12, D31, D91, E21)'] [' This paper considers structural non-parametric random utility models for continuous choice variables with unobserved heterogeneity. We provide sufficient conditions on random preferences to yield reduced-form systems of non-parametric stochastic demand functions that allow global invertibility between demands and non-separable unobserved heterogeneity. Invertibility is essential for global identification of structural consumer demand models, for the existence of well-specified probability models of choice and for the non-parametric analysis of revealed stochastic preference. We distinguish between new classes of models in which heterogeneity is separable and non-separable in the marginal rates of substitution, respectively. Copyright 2008, Wiley-Blackwell.'] [" We use British panel data to investigate single women's labor supply changes in response to three reforms that affected individuals' work incentives. We use these reforms to identify changes in labor supply. There is evidence of small hours of work effects for two of such reforms. A third reform in 1999 instead led to a significant increase in single mothers' hours of work. The mechanism by which the labor supply adjustments were made occurred largely through job changes rather than hours changes with the same employer. This is little overall effect of the reforms on wages. (c) 2008 by The University of Chicago."] [' This paper studies a shape-invariant Engel curve system with endogenous total expenditure, in which the shape-invariant specification involves a common shift parameter for each demographic group in a pooled system of nonparametric Engel curves. We focus on the identification and estimation of both the nonparametric shapes of the Engel curves and the parametric specification of the demographic scaling parameters. The identification condition relates to the bounded completeness and the estimation procedure applies the sieve minimum distance estimation of conditional moment restrictions, allowing for endogeneity. We establish a new root mean squared convergence rate for the nonparametric instrumental variable regression when the endogenous regressor could have unbounded support. Root-n asymptotic normality and semiparametric efficiency of the parametric components are also given under a set of "low-level" sufficient conditions. Our empirical application using the U.K. Family Expenditure Survey shows the importance of adjusting for endogeneity in terms of both the nonparametric curvatures and the demographic parameters of systems of Engel curves. Copyright The Econometric Society 2007.'] [' We present identification and estimation results for the \xe2\x80\x9ccollective\xe2\x80\x9d model of labour supply in which there are discrete choices, censoring of hours, and non-participation in employment. We derive the collective restrictions on labour supply functions and contrast them with restrictions implied by the usual \xe2\x80\x9cunitary\xe2\x80\x9d framework. Using the large changes in the wage structure between men and women in the U.K. over the last two decades, we estimate a collective labour supply model for married couples without children. The estimates of the sharing rule show that male wages and employment have a strong influence on bargaining power within couples. Copyright 2007, Wiley-Blackwell.'] [' This paper examines changes in the distribution of wages using bounds to allow for the impact of nonrandom selection into work. We show that worst case bounds can be informative. However, because employment rates in the United Kingdom are often low, they are not informative about changes in educational or gender wage differentials. Thus we explore ways to tighten these bounds using restrictions motivated from economic theory. With these assumptions, we find convincing evidence of an increase in inequality within education groups, changes in educational differentials, and increases in the relative wages of women. Copyright The Econometric Society 2007.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper presents a test for exogeneity of explanatory variables that minimizes the need for auxiliary assumptions that are not required by the definition of exogeneity. It concerns inference about a non-parametric function g that is identified by a conditional moment restriction involving instrumental variables (IV). A test of the hypothesis that g is the mean of a random variable Y conditional on a covariate X is developed that is not subject to the ill-posed inverse problem of non-parametric IV estimation. The test is consistent whenever g differs from E (Y \xe2\x88\xa3 X) on a set of non-zero probability. The usefulness of this new exogeneity test is displayed through Monte Carlo experiments and an application to estimation of non-parametric consumer expansion paths. Copyright 2007, Wiley-Blackwell.'] [' There are three key dimensions by which revealed preference bounds on consumer demand responses can be improved. The first relates to the improvements that arise from using expansion paths for given relative prices, E-bounds. The second concerns the addition of new price information. Thirdly, there are improvements due to assuming separability. Our previous research has examined the first two cases. In this article, we show how to impose separability assumptions within a fully nonparametric analysis and distinguish between weak and homothetic separability. We also apply these ideas to the analysis of demand responses using United Kingdom household level data. Copyright 2007 by the Economics Department Of The University Of Pennsylvania And Osaka University Institute Of Social And Economic Research Association.'] [' A framework for simplified implementation of the collective model of labor supply decisions is presented in the context of fiscal reforms in the UK. Through its collective form the model accounts for the well known problem of distribution between wallet and purse, a broadly debated issue which has so far been impossible to model due to the limitations of the unitary model of household behavior. A calibrated data set is used to model the effects of introducing two forms of the Working Families\xe2\x80\x99 Tax Credit. We also summarize results of estimations and calibrations obtained using the same methodology on data from five other European countries. The results underline the importance of taking account of the intrahousehold decision process and suggest that who receives government transfers does matter from the point of view of labor supply and welfare of household members. They also highlight the need for more research into models of household behavior. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2006'] [' We suggest a methodology to calibrate a collective model with household-specific bargaining rules and marriage-specific preferences that incorporate leisure externalities. The empirical identification relies on the assumption that some aspects of individual preferences remain the same after marriage, so that estimation on single individuals can be used. The procedure maps the complete Pareto frontier of each household in the dataset and we define alternative measures of a power index. The latter is then regressed on relevant bargaining factors, including a set of variables retracing the potential relative contributions of the spouses to household disposable income. In its capacity to handle complex budget sets and labor force participation decisions of both spouses, this framework allows the comparison of unitary and collective predictions of labor supply reactions and welfare changes entailed by fiscal reforms in a realistic setting (see Michal Myck et al., 2006 ; Denis Beninger et al., 2006 ). Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2006'] [' This paper proposes a comparison of the results of tax policy analysis obtained on the basis of unitary and collective representations of the household. We first generate labour supplies consistent with the collective rationality, by use of a model calibrated on microdata as described in Vermeulen et al. [Collective Models of Household Labor Supply with Nonconvex Budget Sets and Nonparticipation: A Calibration Approach ( 2006 )]. A unitary model is then estimated on these collective data and unitary and collective responses to a tax reform are compared. We focus on the introduction of linear taxation in Germany. The exercise is replicated for other European countries and other topical reforms. Distortions due to the use of a unitary model turn out to be important in predicting labour supply adjustments, in the design of tax revenue neutral reforms, and in predicting a reform\xe2\x80\x99s welfare implications. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2006'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' A widely shared intuition holds that individual control over money matters for the decision process within the household and the subsequent distribution of resources and welfare. As a consequence, there are good reasons to depart from the unitary model of the household and to explore the possibilities offered by models of the family accounting for several decision makers in the household and for the potential impact of tax reforms on the balance of power. This paper summarizes both the methodological and empirical findings presented in the next three papers of this special issue of the Review of the Economics of the Household. This series of contributions primarily entails a concrete comparison of the policy implications of the choice between the unitary and a particular multi-person representation: the collective representation. On the one hand, it suggests a methodology to implement the collective model of labor supply in a realistic context where participation is modeled together with working hours, and where the full tax-benefit system is accounted for. On the other hand, the empirical part relies on comprehensive simulations of tax reforms in Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, and allows to quantify the distortions that may affect policy recommendations based on the unitary model. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2006'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper looks at the policy debate surrounding private pensions and retirement patterns in the UK. Recent increases in longevity have led not only to increased pressures in public pensions but also to corresponding increases in the importance of private pensions in the UK and changes in the way in which they are structured. We consider the economic implications of these changes, and in particular the increased importance of defined contribution plans. In addition, we discuss the prospects for future trends in retirement ages.'] ['We extend the collective model of household behavior to allow for the existence of public consumption. We show how this model allows the analysis of welfare consequences of policies aimed at changing the distribution of power within the household. Our setting provides a conceptual framework for addressing issues linked to the "targeting" of specific benefits or taxes. We also show that the observation of the labor supplies and the household demand for the public good allow one to identify individual welfare and the decision process. This requires either a separability assumption or the presence of a distribution factor.'] [' This lecture address the following two key criticisms of the empirical application of revealed preference theory: When the RP conditions do not reject, they do not provide precise predictions; and when they do reject, they do not help characterize the nature of irrationality or the degree/direction of changing tastes. Recent developments in the application of RP theory are shown to have rendered these criticisms unfounded. A powerful test of rationality is available that also provides a natural characterization of changing tastes. Tight bounds on demand responses and on the welfare costs of relative price and tax changes are also available and are shown to work well in practice. (JEL: D11, D12, C14) Copyright (c) 2005 The European Economic Association.'] [' We examine the possible consequences of the increasing shift from Defined Benefit to Defined Contribution arrangements for private pensions. Whilst much analysis has focused on the possible distribution of investment and job tenure risk, we point out the additional role for issues relating to adverse selection and to retirement incentives. These issues are illustrated using empirical evidence from the United Kingdom, where the fact that private pensions are an alternative, as opposed to a supplement, to earnings-related state pension provision makes the effects particularly salient. (JEL: I38, J32, D91) Copyright (c) 2005 The European Economic Association.'] [' Regression, matching, control function and instrumental variables methods for recovering the effect of education on individual earnings are reviewed for single treatments and sequential multiple treatments with and without heterogeneous returns. The sensitivity of the estimates once applied to a common data set is then explored. We show the importance of correcting for detailed test score and family background differences and of allowing for (observable) heterogeneity in returns. We find an average return of 27% for those completing higher education "versus" anything less. Compared with stopping at 16\xe2\x80\x89years of age without qualifications, we find an average return to O-levels of 18%, to A-levels of 24% and to higher education of 48%. Copyright 2005 Royal Statistical Society.'] [' This paper investigates the relationship between product market competition and innovation. We find strong evidence of an inverted-U relationship using panel data. We develop a model where competition discourages laggard firms from innovating but encourages neck-and-neck firms to innovate. Together with the effect of competition on the equilibrium industry structure, these generate an inverted-U. Two additional predictions of the model-that the average technological distance between leaders and followers increases with competition, and that the inverted-U is steeper when industries are more neck-and-neck-are both supported by the data. \xc2\xa9 2005 MIT Press'] [' How does entry affect productivity growth of incumbents? In this paper we exploit policy reforms in the United Kingdom that changed entry conditions by opening up the U.K. economy during the 1980s and panel data on British establishments to shed light on this question. We show that more entry, measured by a higher share of industry employment in foreign firms, has led to faster total factor productivity growth of domestic incumbent firms and thus to faster aggregate productivity growth. (JEL: L5, L10, O31, O4) Copyright (c) 2004 The European Economic Association.'] [' This paper exploits area-based piloting and age-related eligibility rules to identify treatment effects of a labor market program-the New Deal for Young People in the U.K. A central focus is on substitution/displacement effects and on equilibrium wage effects. The program includes extensive job assistance and wage subsidies to employers. We find that the impact of the program significantly raised transitions to employment by about 5 percentage points. The impact is robust to a wide variety of nonexperimental estimators. However, we present some evidence that this effect may not be as large in the longer run. (JEL: J18, J23, J38) Copyright (c) 2004 The European Economic Association.'] [" Alongside the growth in overall employment and the steady rise in average real incomes over the 1990s, many developed countries experienced a concentration of low labour market attachment and low pay among certain groups in society. In response, the focus of welfare policy shifted towards targeted 'making work pay' programs. This paper considers the validity of the arguments underlying this shift in welfare policy. It examines two broad classes of policies: active labour market programs and earned income tax credits."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper develops and implements semiparametric methods for estimating binary response (binary choice) models with continuous endogenous regressors. It extends existing results on semiparametric estimation in single-index binary response models to the case of endogenous regressors. It develops a "control function" approach to account for endogeneity in triangular and fully simultaneous binary response models. The proposed estimation method is applied to estimate the income effect in a labour market participation problem using a large micro data-set from the British Family Expenditure Survey. The semiparametric estimator is found to perform well, detecting a significant attenuation bias. The proposed estimator is contrasted to the corresponding probit and linear probability specifications. Copyright 2004 The Review of Economic Studies Ltd.'] ['A new and easily implementable framework for the empirical analysis of the relationship between aggregate and individual wages is developed. Aggregate real wages are shown to contain three important bias terms: one associated with the dispersion of individual wages, a second deriving from compositional changes in the (selected) sample of workers, and a third reflecting the distribution of working hours. Their importance for interpreting the path of aggregate wages and of the returns to education for recent experience in Britain is highlighted. A close correspondence between the estimated biases and the patterns of differences shown by aggregate wages is established. (JEL C34, E24, J31)'] ['In this paper, we describe the household wealth distribution in the United States and United Kingdom over the past two decades, and compare both wealth inequality and the form in which wealth is held. Unconditionally, there are large differences in financial wealth between the two countries at the top fifth of the wealth distribution. Even after controlling for age and income differences between the two countries, we show that the median U.S. household accumulates more financial wealth than their United Kingdom counterpart does. We explore a number of alternative reasons for these differences and reject some explanations as implausible. Some of the observed differences are due to what we refer to as \xe2\x80\x98\xe2\x80\x98initial conditions,\xe2\x80\x99\xe2\x80\x99 in particular previously high rates of corporate equity ownership in the U.S. and housing ownership among young British households. This only provides a partial explanation, however. Among other explanations are differences in the annuitization of retirement incomes and in the amount of wealth held in the form of housing equity. In the first case, forced and voluntary annuitization in the United Kingdom mean older households face considerably less longevity risk. In the second, higher house price volatility in the United Kingdom can create an incentive, as shown Banks, Blundell, and Smith (2002), away from stock market equity earlier in the life cycle.'] [' This paper applies revealed preference theory to the nonparametric statistical analysis of consumer demand. Knowledge of expansion paths is shown to improve the power of nonparametric tests of revealed preference. The tightest bounds on indifference surfaces and welfare measures are derived using an algorithm for which revealed preference conditions are shown to guarantee convergence. Nonparametric Engel curves are used to estimate expansion paths and provide a stochastic structure within which to examine the consistency of household level data and revealed preference theory. An application is made to a long time series of repeated cross--sections from the Family Expenditure Survey for Britain. The consistency of these data with revealed preference theory is examined. For periods of consistency with revealed preference, tight bounds are placed on true cost of living indices. Copyright The Econometric Society 2003.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In this paper we examine the panel data estimation of dynamic models for count data that include correlated fixed effects and predetermined variables.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This mix of state and private pension provision in the United Kingdom provides a rare degree of variation in pension incentives for retirement. Using a sample of individuals from the UK Retirement Survey, the paper models the probability of retirement in terms of the incentives underlying the individual"s pension plan as well as other socio-economic factors. It follows an option value approach and allows a separate role for pension wealth, for spouse"s economic characteristics and for demographic characteristics. It distinguishes between SERPS and private schemes and models eligibility to disability. The results point to significant retirement incentive effects from the pension system. Copyright Royal Economic Society 2002.'] [' This paper studies the paths from inequality in earnings to inequality in household consumption. We show that careful study of the evolution of the variances and covariances of earnings and consumption within cohorts across time can identify permanent and transitory shocks. We present an application to the evolution of inequality in the United Kingdom. We extend previous results to recognise separate earnings of partners in couples. Copyright Royal Economic Society 2002.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' In this paper we model the evolution of income risk and consumption growth. We decompose the time series innovation of the income process into its common and cohort-specific components. From these we compute conditional variances which are used as separate risk terms in a consumption growth equation. Using a long series of British household data we exploit the time-series variation to identify precautionary saving effects and find strong evidence of their importance. Specifically, after allowing for demographic and labour market status, there is an independent role for income risk in explaining consumption growth. Rather than the component that is common across cohorts, however, it is the cohort-specific element that is important in determining changes in consumption growth. This result points to a failure of between-cohort insurance mechanisms. Copyright 2001 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited'] [' This paper considers the estimation of Cobb-Douglas production functions using panel data covering a large sample of companies observed for a small number of time periods. GMM estimatorshave been found to produce large finite-sample biases when using the standard first-differenced estimator. These biases can be dramatically reduced by exploiting reasonable stationarity restrictions on the initial conditions process. Using data for a panel of R&amp;Dperforming; US manufacturing companies we find that the additional instruments used in our extended GMM estimator yield much more reasonable parameter estimates.'] [' In-work benefit reforms seek to reduce poverty and promote employment among low-income families. Using evidence from similar policies in the USA and Canada, this paper reviews the likely impact of recent UK reforms. The focus is on employment and hours. In particular, the paper examines the effectiveness of the new Working Families Tax Credit in the UK in increasing employment among low-income families. It presents evidence suggesting modest increases in employment for single parents and workerless married couples with children, but with some offsetting reductions in employment in two-earner couples with young children. Copyright 2000 by Oxford University Press.'] [' We use British birth cohort panel data to examine the impact that degree level qualifications and other higher education qualifications have on the earnings of individuals in the medium to longer term. We compare the outcomes of these individuals with those of individuals who had the prospect of undertaking Higher Education but chose not to. Our approach involves "matching" these individuals according to observed characteristics which we have in the data such as ability, family background and demographics and then comparing outcomes between individuals who proved to HE and otherwise identical individuals who had the opportunity but did not.'] ['This paper develops a new concept of separability with overlapping groups. This is shown to provide a useful empirical and theoretical framework for investigating the grouping of goods and prices. It is a generalisation of weak separability in which goods are allowed to enter more than one group and where the composition of groups is identified by the choice of group specific exclusive goods. For the Almost Ideal and Translog demand models and their generalisations, we provide a method for choosing the number of separable groups. A detailed method for exploring the composition of the separable groups is also presented.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper presents a review of non-experimental methods for the evaluation of social programmes. We consider matching and selection methods and analyse each for cross-section, repeated cross-section and longitudinal data. The methods are assessed drawing on evidence from labour market programmes in the UK and in the US.'] ['In October 1999, the working families\xe2\x80\x99 tax credit (WFTC) replaced family credit as the main package of in-work support for families with children. Among a range of stated aims, the WFTC is intended to \xe2\x80\x98... improve work incentives, encouraging people without work to move into employment\xe2\x80\x99. In this paper, we consider the impact of WFTC on hours and participation. To simulate labour supply responses, we use a discrete behavioural model of household labour supply with controls for fixed and childcare costs, and unobserved heterogeneity. In simulation, we experiment with a number of scenarios regarding the take-up of the credit, entry wage level and hourly childcare price. We find participation rates among single mothers to increase by around 2.2 percentage points for the base-case scenario, while for married women participation rates are modelled to fall. Our simulation results indicate a small increase in overall participation of around 30,000 individuals.'] [' In this paper the differences in average waiting times are utilized to identify the determinants of demand for health services. The equilibrium waiting time framework is used, but the full equilibrium assumption is relaxed by selecting areas with low waiting times and by estimating a (semi-)parametric selection model. Determinants of supply are used as instruments for the endogeneity of waiting times. A model for the demand for acute services at the ward level in the UK is estimated. The model estimates, and their implications for health service allocations in the UK, are contrasted against more standard allocation models. The present results show that it is critically important to account for rationing by waiting times when identifying needs from care utilization data. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2000 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] [' This paper examines alternative approaches to wage subsidy programmes. It does this in the context of a recent active labour market reform for the young unemployed in Britain. This \xe2\x80\x9cNew Deal\xe2\x80\x9d reform and the characteristics of the target group are examined in detail. We discuss theoretical considerations, the existing empirical evidence and propose two strategies for evaluation. The first suggests an ex-post \xe2\x80\x98trend adjusted difference in difference\xe2\x80\x99 estimator. The second, relates to a model based ex-ante evaluation. We present the conditions for each to provide a reliable evaluation and fit some of the crucial parameters using data from the British Labour Force Survey. We stress that the success of this type of labour market programmes hinge on dynamic aspects of the youth labour market, in particular the pay-off to experience and training. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 1999'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper provides a non-technical review of the evidence on the returns to education and training for the individual, the firm and the economy at large. It begins by reviewing the empirical work that has attempted to estimate the true causal effect of education and training on individual earnings, focusing on the recent literature that has attempted to control for potential biases in the estimated returns to education and training. It then moves on to review the literature that has looked at the returns from human capital investments to employers. Lack of suitable data and methodological difficulties have resulted in a paucity of studies that have carried out sound empirical work on this issue. In the final part of the review, we look at the work that has tried to assess the contribution of human capital to national economic growth at the macroeconomic level. This work has generally involved using either a \xe2\x80\x98growth accounting\xe2\x80\x99 theoretical framework or \xe2\x80\x98new growth\xe2\x80\x99 theories. Although the empirical macroeconomic evidence that accompanies this work does not generally allow one to distinguish between the two approaches, there is a substantial body of evidence on the contribution of education to economic growth.'] [' Empirical demand systems that do not impose unreasonable restrictions on preferences are typically non-linear. We show, however, that all popular systems possess the property of conditional linearity. A computationally attractive iterated linear least squares estimator (ILLE) is proposed for large non-linear simultaneous equation systems which are conditionally linear in unknown parameters. The estimator is shown to be consistent and its asymptotic efficiency properties are derived. An application is given for a 22-commodity quadratic demand system using household-level data from a time series of repeated cross-sections.'] [' This paper examines the empirical relationship between technological innovations, market share and stock market value. New developments in the estimation of dynamic count data models are used to control for unobserved firm specific heterogeneity. We find a robust and positive effect of market share on observable headcounts of innovations and patents although increased product market competition in the industry tends to stimulate innovative activity. Furthermore, the impact of innovation on market value is larger for firms with higher market shares. We argue that our results are consistent with models where high market share firms have incentives to pre-emptively innovate. Copyright 1999 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We consider the implementation of Kernel methods in empirical microeconomics with specific application to Engel curve estimation in the analysis of consumer behavior. A set of recently developed tests for the parametric null hypothesis against a nonparametric alternative are discussed and implemented for the Engel curve application. We also consider semi-parametric estimation in partially linear models and the case of endogenous regressors. Gauss-based software is available for each technique implemented in the paper.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper addresses whether households save enough for their retirement. For successive date-of-birth cohorts the authors analyze income and expenditure patterns around the time of retirement. They find a fall in consumption as household heads retire which cannot be fully explained by a forward-looking consumption-smoothing model that accounts for expected demographic changes and mortality risk. Controlling for labor-market participation explains part, but not all, of this dip. The authors argue that the only way to reconcile fully the fall in consumption with the life-cycle hypothesis is with the systematic arrival of unexpected adverse information. Copyright 1998 by American Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The 1980s tax reforms and the changing dispersion of wages offer one of the best opportunities yet to estimate labor supply effects. Nevertheless, changing sample composition, aggregate shocks, the changing composition of the tax paying population, and discontinuities in the tax system create serious identification and estimation problems. The authors develop grouping estimators that address these issues. Their results reveal positive and moderately sized wage elasticities. The authors also find negative income effects for women with children.'] [' This paper places the debate over using consumption or income in studies of inequality growth in a formal intertemporal setting. It highlights the importance of permanent and transitory income uncertainty in the evaluation of growth in consumption inequality.We derive conditions under which the growth of variances and covariances of income and consumption can be used to separately identify the growth in the variance of permanent and transitory income shocks. Household data from Britain for the period 1968-1992 are used to show a strong growth in transitory inequality toward the end of this period, while younger cohorts are shown to face significantly higher levels of permanent inequality. \xc2\xa9 2000 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] [' This paper considers the implementation of semiparametric methods in the empirical analysis of consumer demand. The application is to the estimation of the Engel curve relationship and uses the British Family Expenditure Survey. Household composition is modelled using an extended partially linear framework. This is shown to provide a useful method for pooling non-parametric Engel curves across households of different demographic composition. \xc2\xa9 1998 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] ['In this paper we consider estimation of the autoregressive error components model. When the autoregressive parameter is moderately large and the number of time series observations is moderately small, the usual Generalised Methods of Moments (GMM) estimator obtained after first differencing has been found to be poorly behaved. Here we consider alternative linear estimators that are designed to improve the properties of the standard first-differenced GMM estimator. We consider two approaches to estimation. The first approach extends the model by adding the observed initial values as an extra regressor. This allows consistent estimates to be obtained by error-components GLS. This estimator is shown to be equivalent to the optimal GMM estimator for the normal homoskedastic error components model. The second approach considers a mild restriction on the initial condition process under which lagged differences in the dependent variable can be used to construct linear moment conditions in the levels equations. The complete set of moment conditions can then be exploited by a linear GMM estimator in a system of first-differenced and levels equations, rendering the non-linear moment conditions redundant for estimation. This estimator is strictly more efficient than non-linear GMM when the additional restriction is valid. Monte Carlo simulations are reported which demonstrate the dramatic improvement in performance of the proposed estimators compared to the usual first-differenced GMM estimator, especially for high values of the autoregressive parameter.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' A model is developed that allows for a lay-off rate and a job arrival rate in the intertemporal choice of consumption and labor market state. The identification of such a model is established without recourse to dynamic programming solutions and the minimum date requirements for estimation are derived. Unobserved heterogeneity is included in the model specification but state dependence is only allowed through the lay-off and arrival rates which are restricted to be functions of observable weakly exogenous variables.'] [' This paper presents a model of consumer demand that is consistent with the observed expenditure patterns of individual consumers in a long time series of expenditure surveys and is also able to provide a detailed welfare analysis of shifts in relative prices. A nonparametric analysis of consumer expenditure patterns suggests that Engel curves require quadratic terms in the logarithm of expenditure. While popular models of demand such as the Translog or the Almost Ideal Demand Systems do allow flexible price responses within a theoretically coherent structure, they have expenditure share Engel curves that are linear in the logarithm of total expenditure. We derive the complete class of integrable quadratic logarithmic expenditure share systems. A specification from this class is estimated on a large pooled data set of U.K. households. Models that fail to account for Engel curvature are found to generate important distortions in the patterns of welfare losses associated with a tax increase. \xc2\xa9 1997 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] [' For small group sizes, the GLS estimator in multilevel models is biased and inconsistent when the random cluster effects are correlated with the regressors. A fixed effects approach, conditioning on the cluster effects, provides consistent estimates for the slope parameters. The two estimators are equivalent when group sizes are large. The same results obtain for two-stage estimation procedures that allow for some of the regressors to be simultaneously determined with the dependent variable. The GLS and fixed effects estimators are applied to data on acute care hospital utilization in the UK, allowing for health authority district effects. \xc2\xa9 1997 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] [" The exact measurement of the welfare costs of tax and price reform requires a detailed knowledge of individual preferences. Typically, first-order approximations of welfare costs are calculated avoiding detailed knowledge of substitution effects. The authors derive second-order approximations which, unlike first-order approximations, require knowledge of the distribution of substitution elasticities. This paper asks to what extent simple approximations can be used to measure the welfare costs of tax reform and evaluates the magnitude of the biases for a plausible size tax reform. In the authors' empirical examples, first-order approximations display systematic biases; second-order approximations always work well. Copyright 1996 by Royal Economic Society."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Despite the widespread use of income as a measure of household welfare, there is much to recommend the use of consumption. Indeed, standard economic arguments suggest that consumption expenditure will better reflect expected lifetime resources and many economists have been unequivocal in advocating its use. Slesnick (1993), for example, suggests that \xe2\x80\x98From a theoretical perspective it is more appropriate to evaluate poverty using a consumption based measure of household welfare\xe2\x80\x99. Cutler and Katz (1992) state that \xe2\x80\x98Economic theory suggests that permanent income or consumption is a more accurate measure of the distribution of resources than is current income\xe2\x80\x99. Poterba (1989) argues that `If households base their spending plans on their expected lifetime income, then consumption provides a more accurate measure of resources than does annual income\xe2\x80\x99.'] [" This paper examines the application of count data models to firm level panel data on technological innovations. The model the authors propose exhibits dynamic feedback and unobserved heterogeneity. We develop a fixed effects estimator that generalizes the standard Poisson and negative binomial models allowing for dynamic feedback through both the firm's stock of knowledge and its product market power. By using the long pre-sample history of innovation information this 'entry stock' estimator is shown to control for correlated fixed effects and is compared with an alternative nonlinear GMM estimator. We find evidence of history dependence in innovation activity although variables reflecting the company's economic environment are also found to play a major role. Copyright 1995 by Royal Economic Society."] ['It is 20 years ago this July that the committee under the chairmanship of James Meade was set up by the Institute for Fiscal Studies to take a fundamental look at the UK tax structure. What it produced stands as a landmark in the history of tax policy analysis and was an important springboard for subsequent IFS research. The membership of the committee included three research \xe2\x80\x98secretaries\xe2\x80\x99, two of whom were recent presenters of the IFS Annual Lecture \xe2\x80\x94 John Flemming and Mervyn King \xe2\x80\x94 and the other of whom was to become Director of IFS \xe2\x80\x94 John Kay. With such an active history in research in this area, it would seem reasonable to ask \xe2\x80\x98what\xe2\x80\x99s new?\xe2\x80\x99.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The purpose of this paper is to estimate the parameters of household preferences that determine the allocation of goods within the period and over the life cycle, using micro data. In doing so, the authors are able to identify important effects of demographics, labor market status, and other household characteristics on the intertemporal allocation of expenditure. They test the validity of the life-cycle model using excess sensitivity tests and find that controlling for demographics and labor market status variables can largely explain the excess sensitivity of consumption to anticipated changes in income. Copyright 1994 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["[spa] Oferta laboral y fiscalidad : an\xc3\xa1lisis de la literatura, . por Richard Blundell.. . En el presente an\xc3\xa1lisis de la literatura existente acerca de este tema se pone de relieve la importancia del comportamiento de oferta laboral para la evaluaci\xc3\xb3n \xc3\xa9conomica de las reformas fiscales. Las importantes medidas adoptadas en Gran Breta\xc3\xb1a durante los a\xc3\xb1os ochenta . fjermiten evaluar las reacciones de los agentes. El comportamiento de las mujeres casadas es aquel m\xc3\xa1s sensible a las modificaciones de a fiscalidad, pero determinados gmpos se caracterizan tambi\xc3\xa9n por variaciones sensibles de sus ingresos familiares y por importantes modificaciones marginales de sus ingresos. Algunas reformas incitan a las personas que ya tienen un empleo a trabajar m\xc3\xa1s, mientras que otras est\xc3\xa1n destinadas a fomentar la participaci\xc3\xb3n en el mercado del trabajo. [ger] Arbeitsangebot und Steuerpolitik: ein \xc3\x9cberblick \xc3\xbcber die Fachliteratur, . von Richard Blundell.. . In diesem \xc3\x9cberblick \xc3\xbcber die Fachliteratur wird die Bedeutung aufgezeigt, die dem Verhalten des Arbeitsangebotes bei der wirtschaf tlichen Bewertung der Steuerreformen zukommt. Anhand der umfassenden Reformen, die in Gro\xc3\x9fbritannien in den achtziger Jahren durchgef\xc3\xbchrt wurden, l\xc3\xa4\xc3\x9ft sich die Reaktion der verschiedenen Wirtschaftssubjekte analysieren. Das Verhalten der verheirateten Frauen weist die gr\xc3\xb6\xc3\x9fte Reagibilit\xc3\xa4t gegen\xc3\xbcber steuerrechtlichen Ver\xc3\xa4nderungen auf . Daneben gibt es allerdings noch bestimmte andere Gruppen, die sich ebenfalls durch sp\xc3\xbcrbare Schwankungen des Familieneinkommens und betr\xc3\xa4chtliche marginale Einkommens\xc3\xa4nderungen auszeichnen. Manche Reformen veranlassen diejenigen, die bereits \xc3\xbcber eine Beschaftigung verfugen, noch mehr zu arbeiten, w\xc3\xa4hrend andere einen Anreiz f\xc3\xbcr die Teilnahme am Arbeitsmarkt darstellen. [eng] Labour Supply and Taxation: A Survey, . by Richard Blundell.. . This review shows how important the behaviour of the labour supply is in the economic evaluation of tax reforms. An evaluation of agents' reactions can be made by looking at the radical measures taken by the United Kingdom in the 1980s. The behaviour of married women is most sensitive to changes in taxation. However, several other groups are also marked by considerable variations in family income and by sizeable marginal changes in income. Certain reforms encourage those already in employment to work longer hours, while others prompt participation in the job market. [fre] Offre de travail et fiscalit\xc3\xa9 : une revue de la litt\xc3\xa9rature, . par Richard Blundell.. . Cette revue de la litt\xc3\xa9rature met en \xc3\xa9vidence l'importance du comportement d'offre de travail dans l'\xc3\xa9valuation \xc3\xa9conomique des r\xc3\xa9formes fiscales. Les importantes mesures prises au Royaume-Uni au cours des ann\xc3\xa9es quatre-vingt permettent d'\xc3\xa9valuer les r\xc3\xa9actions des agents. Le comportement des femmes mari\xc3\xa9es est le plus sensible aux modifications de la fiscalit\xc3\xa9, mais certains groupes sont \xc3\xa9galement caract\xc3\xa9ris\xc3\xa9s par des variations sensibles du revenu familial et par des modifications marginales importantes du revenu. Certaines r\xc3\xa9formes incitent ceux qui disposent d\xc3\xa9j\xc3\xa0 d'un emploi \xc3\xa0 travailler plus, tandis que d'autres encouragent la participation au march\xc3\xa9 du travail."] [' The aim of this paper is to assess the importance of using micro-level data in the econometric analysis of consumer demand. To do this, the authors utilize a time series of repeated cross sections covering some 4,000 households in each of fifteen years. Employing a number of different aggregation procedures, they conclude that aggregate data alone are unlikely to produce reliable estimates of structural price and income coefficients. However, once certain aggregation factors as well as trend and seasonal components are included, an aggregate model is not necessarily outperformed across all demand equations in terms of forecasting ability. Copyright 1993 by American Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['[eng] Estimation of a Comprehensive System of Goods Demand and Labour Supply for a Sample of French Households, . by Richard Blundell, Fran\xc3\xa7ois Laisney and Matthias Ruth.. . In order to obtain a comprehensive demand system compatible with life-cycle decisions, previously obtained estimation results for the married-woman labour supply are used to identify the virtually homothetic preference parameters defined for 16 categories of goods estimated for a sample of married-couple households taken from the INSEE Budget des Familles 1978-1979 survey. Four systems are differentiated according to whether or not the household reports purchases in the tobacco and alcohol categories. The other possible zero outlays are treated as resulting from the "purchase infrequency" phenomenon. Minimal consumption is parameterized in great detail according to socio-demographic characteristics, by placintg the emphasis on a symmetrical handling of the characteristics of the husband and the wife. Diagnoses of the hypothesis of the separability of leisure and goods preferences, on which the adopted estimation strategy is based, clearly reject the hypothesis for the four goods categories of "clothing dans shoes", "durables", "transport and communication" and "VAT-reduced rate services". This result could be due to the existence of fixed business costs for these goods categories. [spa] Valoraci\xc3\xb3n de un sistema completo de demandas de bienes y de oferta de trabajo para una muestra de familias francesas, . por Richard Blundell, Fran\xc3\xa7ois Laisney y Matthias Ruth.. . Para llegar a obtener un sistema completo de demandas compatible con la toma de decisiones acerca del ciclo de vida, los autores utilizan los resultados de valoraciones conseguidas anteriormente para la oferta del trabajo de las mujeres casadas, para identificar los param\xc3\xa9tros de preferencia casi homot\xc3\xa9ticos definidos para 16 categor\xc3\xadas de bienes, valorados para una muestra de familias compuestas por una pareja casada, seg\xc3\xban se deriva de la encuesta del INSEE "Presupuestos de las Familias 1978-1979". Cabe establecer la distinci\xc3\xb3n entre cuatro reg\xc3\xadmenes seg\xc3\xban si la familia pr\xc3\xa9cisa o no haber efectuado compras en las categor\xc3\xaeas del tabaco y del alcohol, y se procesan los otros gastos nulos, en su caso, como resultado del fen\xc3\xb3meno de "infrecuencia de compra". Por lo que respecta a los consumos m\xc3\xadnimos, se utiliza una parametrizaci\xc3\xb3n sumamente detallada acorde a las caracter\xc3\xadsticas sociodemogr\xc3\xa1ficas, haciendo hincapi\xc3\xa9 sobre un procesamiento sim\xc3\xa9trico de las caracter\xc3\xadsticas del marido y de la mujer. Los diagn\xc3\xb3sticos de la hip\xc3\xb3tesis de separabilidad entre tiempo libre y bienes en las preferencias, hip\xc3\xb3tesis en que se funda la estrategia de la valoraci\xc3\xb3n adoptada, rechazan abiertamente semejante hip\xc3\xb3tesis para las cuatro categor\xc3\xadas de bienes "vestido y calzado"", bienes duraderos", "transporte y comunicaci\xc3\xb3n" y "servicios a tasa reducida". Este resultado puede tener por origen la existencia de costes fijos de la actividad relativa a estas categor\xc3\xadas de bienes. [ger] Simulationen von Reformen bei der direkten und indirekten Besteuerung der franz\xc3\xb6sischen Haushalte, . von Fran\xc3\xa7ois Laisney, Martin M\xc3\xbchleisen, Matthias Staat, Stefan V\xc3\xb6gele.. . Wir untersuchen in diesem Artikel die Auswirkungen auf den Lebensstandard der franz\xc3\xb6sischen privaten Haushalte einer bei konstanten Steuereinnahmen gleichzeitig durchgef\xc3\xbchrten Reform der indirekten Besteuerung (verschiedene Varianten des ersten Vorschlages der Europ\xc3\xa4ischen Kommission f\xc3\xbcr eine Mehrwertsteuer-Harmonisierung) und der direkten Besteuerung (verschiedene Varianten einer Abscnw\xc3\xa4chung des \'Familienquotienten-Systems\', das eine Besonderheit des franz\xc3\xb6sischen Steuerwesens darstellt und als Mittel zur Anpassung der Steuerbelastung an die demographische Zusammensetzung des Haushalts verstanden werden kann). Verglichen werden zwei Ans\xc3\xa4tze zur Kalibrierung der Bezugssituation, die mit zwei Ans\xc3\xa4tzen zur Simulierung der Reaktionen der Haushalte auf die \xc3\x84nderungen des Steuersystems in Verbindung gebracht werden. In einem dieser Ans\xc3\xa4tze wird das Vorhandensein von arbeitsbedingten Fixkosten ber\xc3\xbccksichtigt. Bei beiden Ans\xc3\xa0tzen gelangen wir zu der Erkenntnis, da\xc3\x9f die Verwirklichung des Kommissionsvorschlages, dem zufolge der erm\xc3\xa4\xc3\x9figte Steuersatz unver\xc3\xa4ndert bleibt, zwar f\xc3\xbcr eine knappe Mehrheit der untersuchten Haushalte von Vorteil sein kann (die gegenw\xc3\xa4rtige Situation ist jedoch auch aufgrund verschiedener anderer Kriterien anscheinend vorzuziehen); da\xc3\x9f aber der normale Steuersatz, der die Kontinuit\xc3\xa4t der Steuereinnahmen sicherstellt, die von der Kommission auferlegten Grenzen \xc3\xbcbersteigt. Obwohl durch die gleichzeitige Abschw\xc3\xa4chung des Familienquotienten-Systems der normale Steuersatz in die gew\xc3\xbcnschte Bandbreite gebracht werden k\xc3\xb6nnte und somit das Preisniveau gesenkt w\xc3\xbcrde, ist die blo\xc3\x9fe \xc3\x84nderung der Mehrwertsteuer einer gemeinsamen Reformierung eindeutig vorzuziehen. Dieses Ergebnis widerspricht der Auffassung, der zufolge eine Steuerentlastung im Zusammenhang mit dem Familienquotienten ledighch f\xc3\xbcr die wohlhabendsten Haushalte sp\xc3\xbcrbare Erleichterungen mit sich bringen w\xc3\xbcrde. [fre] Estimation d\'un syst\xc3\xa8me complet de demandes de biens et d\'offre de travail pour un \xc3\xa9chantillon de m\xc3\xa9nages fran\xc3\xa7ais, . par Richard Blundell, Fran\xc3\xa7ois Laisney, Matthias Ruth.. . Pour obtenir un syst\xc3\xa8me complet de demandes compatible avec la prise de d\xc3\xa9cisions sur le cycle de vie, nous utilisons des r\xc3\xa9sultats d\'estimation obtenus pr\xc3\xa9c\xc3\xa9demment pour l\'offre de travail des femmes mari\xc3\xa9es pour identifier les param\xc3\xa8tres de pr\xc3\xa9f\xc3\xa9rences quasi-homoth\xc3\xa9tiques d\xc3\xa9finies sur 16 categories de biens, estim\xc3\xa9es sur un \xc3\xa9chantillon de m\xc3\xa9nages bas\xc3\xa9s sur un couple mari\xc3\xa9, tir\xc3\xa9 de l\'enqu\xc3\xaate Insee "Budgets des Familles 1978-1979". Nous distinguons quatre r\xc3\xa9gimes selon que le m\xc3\xa9nage indique ou non avoir effectu\xc3\xa9 des achats dans les cat\xc3\xa9gories tabac et alcool, et traitons les autres d\xc3\xa9penses nulles \xc3\xa9ventuelles comme r\xc3\xa9sultant du ph\xc3\xa9nom\xc3\xa8ne "d\'infr\xc3\xa9quence d\'achat". Nous utilisons pour les consommations minimales une param\xc3\xa9trisation tr\xc3\xa8s d\xc3\xa9taill\xc3\xa9e en fonction de caract\xc3\xa9ristiques socio-d\xc3\xa9mographiques, en mettant l\'accent sur un traitement sym\xc3\xa9trique des caract\xc3\xa9ristiques du mari et de la femme. Des diagnostics de l\'hypoth\xc3\xa8se de s\xc3\xa9parabilit\xc3\xa9 entre loisir et biens dans les pr\xc3\xa9f\xc3\xa9rences, hypoth\xc3\xa8se sur laquelle repose la strat\xc3\xa9gie d\'estimation adopt\xc3\xa9e, rejettent nettement cette hypoth\xc3\xa8se pour les quatre cat\xc3\xa9gories de biens "habits et chaussures", "durables", "transport et communication" et "services au taux r\xc3\xa9duit". Ce r\xc3\xa9sultat peut \xc3\xaatre du en fait \xc3\xa0 l\'existence de co\xc3\xbbts fixes de l\'activit\xc3\xa9 portant sur ces cat\xc3\xa9gories de biens.'] [' This paper examines the labour supply behaviour of married women in France. A sequence of models is specified and estimated which incorporate different amounts of information on observed weekly hours. In all models the distinction is drawn between search and non-participation among non-workers. We provide extensive specification diagnostics, including Heckman-Andrews tests, as well as Hausman tests for the comparison of different handlings of the hours information. It turns out that distinguishing between part-time, full-time and long hours gives virtually the same results as treating observed hours as reflecting desired hours.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In any policy-orientated study of family welfare, it is inevitable that some comparison of welfare between households with different compositions will be required, and the theory of (adult) equivalence scales aims to formalise the way in which these comparisons may be made. An adult equivalence scale is defined as the proportionate increase in income per adult necessary to maintain a certain level of household living standard given some change in demographic circumstances (typically, the introduction of children). Values for such scales might be obtained in any of a number of ways. It is clear, for instance, that any national social security system can be interpreted as embodying one such set of scales; in the UK this is given by those reported in Table 1.'] ['This paper provides a methodology for efficient estimation of dynamic panel data models under different assumptions concerning initial conditions and variance assumptions. In the analysis of panel data models that may involve lagged dependent variables, concerns about the initial conditions reflect the fact that most panel data sets have a relatively small time series dimension. Our model specification is a linear first-order dynamic model in which there are assumed to exist an identifying subset of strictly exogenous regressors. Under all but the most trivial assumption concerning the initial conditions the standard GLS procedure is inconsistent. We argue that our approach provides a natural procedure for testing assumptions concerning the process underlying the initial conditions. The methodology is applied to the estimation of a dynamic model of investment behaviour using panel data.'] [' The paper is concerned with the empirical modeling of domestic demand for energy at the level of the individual household. A model of household energy expenditures and energy using durable ownership is described. Estimation takes place using a pooled sample of households drawn from the repeated cross- sections of the annual Family Expenditure Survey (FES). Price and income elasticities are found to be highly dependent on individual household characteristics, type of house tenure, energy using durable ownership and outside temperature. Finally the results are placed in a policy relevant context. Copyright 1991 by Oxford University Press.'] [' Estimation of simultaneous-equation, limited dependent variable models is considered. The minimum Chi-squared method is used to compare the asymptotic relative efficiency of marginal and new conditional maximum likelihood estimators for this class of models. Efficient minimum Chi-squared estimation procedures are described. A two-step algorithm, based on a conditional maximum likelihood estimator, provides a natural framework for both computing a linearized and locating the joint maximum likelihood estimator. The unimodality of the simultaneous-equation, tobit likelihood function is proved and this model is used to illustrate the empirical application of some of the estimators considered in the paper. Copyright 1989 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] [' This paper is concerned with the empirical modeling of domestic demand for energy in the United Kingdom at the level of the individual household. A two-stage budgeting model of household demand for energy conditional on durable ownership is developed. At the first stage, income is allocated between energy and nonenergy consumption, while at the second stage, energy expenditure is disaggregated. The second-stage allocation is assumed to be between gas, electricity, and a composite good "other fuels." Estimation takes place using a sample of some 50,000 households drawn from the annual U.K. Family Expenditure Survey for the years 1972-83, a source that has not been fully exploited in the analysis of energy demand to date. Copyright 1989 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This survey is designed to emphasize the relationship between empirical a nd theoretical considerations in the analysis of consumer behavior. A lthough it focuses primarily on analysis at the individual or micro l evel, it tries, where possible, to draw implications for the estimati on of aggregate relationships. The importance of micro-level analysis stems from the rapid expansion in available panel and survey data se ts. This development has generated its own theoretical and empirical issues, many of which are raised in this survey. Copyright 1988 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['The paper presents an approach to modelling the labour supply of married women in France using a subsamply of the INSEE survey "Budgest des Familles 1978-1979". A major difficulty with the estimation of labour supply reactions for France is the lack of continuity in observed hours worked. Using a quasi-homothetic specification for preferences allowing for demographics, we estimate different versions of the same model, treating the information on hours as grouped data. The preferred version treats the job seekers as wanting to supply an indeterminate positive amount of hours of work.'] [" Official estimates of housing benefit take-up rates suggest that up to two million families in the United Kingdom ma y not be receiving the help with their housing costs to which they ar e entitled. The authors' interest in the take-up of means tested bene fits is therefore motivated by two concerns. The first is the governm ent revenue implications of a change to benefit entitlement levels. T he second relates to the welfare of individuals who fail to claim the ir entitlement to benefit. In this paper, the authors investigate the relationship between the take-up of means-tested housing benefit, in dividual socioeconomic characteristics, and the level of entitlement. Copyright 1987 by Royal Economic Society."] [' The definition of labor force participation in the standard labor supply model stands in sharp contrast to that used in compiling the labor force statistics. In standard labor supply models, only those supplying positive hours of work are considered to be labor force participants. On the other hand, participation in the labor force statistics is often defined to include not only those supplying positive hours but also those actively searching for work. This paper is an attempt to reconcile these concepts and turns out to be aconvenient way to enter demand side factors. The model is applied to the working behavior of married women in the U.K. Family Expenditure Survey. Copyright 1987 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In this paper we develop a set of selection criteria for the specification of a female labour supply model for microdata. We look at both economic and statistical criteria in assessing various models, paying particular attention to the flexibility of the economic model and the stochastic specification of unobservable factors. Using these criteria, a model is selected from a sample of United Kingdom Family Expenditure Survey data.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']