 ['Although cooperation between central banks and treasuries is controversial, this paper contends that in a crisis it is inevitable and desirable. Six reasons for cooperation in a crisis are advanced. Disengagement in the aftermath and restoring central bank independence is tricky, however. The paper concludes with comments on what is necessary to maintain central bank credibility.'] ['This article reports on household survey measurements of the \xe2\x80\x9coffshorability\xe2\x80\x9d of jobs, defined as the ability to perform the work from abroad. We develop multiple measures of offshorability, using both self-reporting and professional coders. All measures find that roughly 25% of US jobs are offshorable. Our three preferred measures agree between 70% and 80% of the time. Professional coders appear to provide the most accurate assessments. Empirically, more educated workers appear to hold somewhat more offshorable jobs, and offshorability does not have systematic effects on either wages or the probability of layoff.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Alan Blinder argues that something must be done, and outlines the bare minimum that we must do.'] ['This article was originally presented as the Homer Jones Memorial Lecture, organized by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri, April 1, 2010.'] ['The nature and scope of the Federal Reserve\'s authority and the structure of its decision making are now "on the table" to an extent that has not been seen since 1935, and the Fed\'s vaunted independence is under some attack. This essay asks what the Federal Reserve should -- and shouldn\'t -- do, leaning heavily on the concept of economies of scope. In particular, I conclude that the central bank should monitor and regulate systemic risk because preserving financial stability is (a) closely aligned with the standard objectives of monetary policy and (b) likely to require lender of last resort powers. I also conclude that the Fed should supervise large financial institutions because that function is so closely to regulating systemic risk. However, several other functions now performed by the Fed could easily be done elsewhere. ( JEL E52, E58, G21, G28)'] ['The Squam Lake Report is a volume by economists for economists. It offers the fruits of the labors of 15 top economists who met at Squam Lake, New Hampshire, to discuss financial reform. While somewhat disjointed, and avoiding many important issues, the book is nonetheless a tour du force. Its many recommendations derive from two basic principles: that reformers need to think systemically, and that third-party costs stemming from systemic risk need to be internalized. And its approach is just what you would expect from a group of academic economists. It asks (and answers) questions like: Where did incentives go wrong? What were the sources of market failure? How can we better protect society against negative externalities?.'] [' Recent events should force everyone who teaches macroeconomics (or finance, for that matter) to reconsider their curriculums. In this short article, the author shares his thoughts about what should and should not be changed in the way economists teach macro principles to beginning students. Two tradeoffs are paramount and must be faced by every instructor: (1) how much additional complexity must be and can be introduced in a principles course in which the students are relatively unsophisticated; and (2) although it is easy to think of new topics that recent events \xe2\x80\x9cdemand\xe2\x80\x9d instructors add, it is much harder to think of topics to delete . Yet economists should understand the necessity of choice forced by (time) budget constraints.'] ['This paper considers a wide range of financial reform issues, focusing on macroprudential regulation and on the recent reforms in the United States\xe2\x80\x94although the principles apply globally. It emphasizes such issues as the needs for a systemic risk regulator and an orderly resolution mechanism for systemically important financial institutions, the risks posed by proprietary trading and skewed compensation incentives, and the design of new capital and liquidity requirements for banks. Throughout, an attempt is made to relate concrete regulatory proposals to the abstract principles that should govern financial regulation.'] ['Using detailed information on the nature of work done in over 800 US Bureau of Labor Statistics occupational codes, this paper ranks those occupations according to how easy/hard it is to offshore the work \xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x80\x9c either physically or electronically. Using this ranking, it is estimated that somewhere between 22% and 29% of all US jobs are or will be potentially offshorable within a decade or two. (No estimate is made of how many jobs will actually be offshored.) Since the rankings are subjective, two alternatives are presented \xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x80\x9c one is entirely objective, the other is an independent subjective ranking. In general, they corroborate the rankings, albeit not perfectly. It is found that there is little or no correlation between an occupation\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x84\xa2s \xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xcb\x9coffshorability\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x84\xa2 and the skill level of its workers (as measured either by educational attainment or wages). However, it appears that, controlling for education, the most highly offshorable occupations were already paying significantly lower wages in 2004.'] [" This paper considers a number of design features of monetary policy committees (MPCs), including their size and composition, the degree of consensus for which they strive, the role of the committee chair, voting procedures, methods of appointment and communication techniques. Real-world MPCs vary substantially in all these respects and more. Based on the theoretical and empirical research to date, most of which is of very recent vintage, a tentative set of 'best practices' is proposed. Copyright 2009 Blackwell Publishing Ltd"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Over the last two decades, communication has become an increasingly important aspect of monetary policy. These real-world developments have spawned a huge new scholarly literature on central bank communication\xe2\x80\x94mostly empirical, and almost all of it written in this decade. We survey this ever-growing literature. The evidence suggests that communication can be an important and powerful part of the central bank\xe2\x80\x99s toolkit since it has the ability to move financial markets, to enhance the predictability of monetary policy decisions, and potentially to help achieve central banks\xe2\x80\x99 macroeconomic objectives. However, the large variation in communication strategies across central banks suggests that a consensus has yet to emerge on what constitutes an optimal communication strategy.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We measure the relative contribution of the deviation of real activity from its equilibrium (the gap), \xe2\x80\x9csupply-shock\xe2\x80\x9d variables, and long-horizon inflation forecasts for explaining the U.S. inflation rate in the post-war period. For alternative specifications for the inflation-driving process and measures of inflation and the gap, we reach a similar conclusion: the contribution of changes in long-horizon inflation forecasts dominates that for the gap and supply-shock variables. Put another way, variation in long-horizon inflation forecasts explains the bulk of the movement in realized inflation. Further, we find evidence that long-horizon forecasts have become substantially less volatile over the sample period, suggesting that permanent shocks to the inflation rate have moderated. Finally, we use our preferred specification for the inflation-driving process to compute a history of model-based forecasts of the inflation rate. For both short and long horizons, these forecasts are close to inflation expectations obtained from surveys.'] ['Among the most notable, but least discussed, hallmarks of what I have called the "quiet revolution" in central banking practice (Blinder, 2004a) has been the movement toward making monetary policy decisions by committee. Until about a decade ago, most central banks had a single governor, who might or might not have been independent of the rest of the government. But since then, the United Kingdom, Japan, Sweden, Norway, Switzerland, and Brazil, to name just a few, have opted to establish monetary policy committees (MPCs). In addition, the committee-based ECB replaced 12 central banks, most of which had previously been run by individual governors. Thus the existence of a pronounced worldwide trend is clear. In this paper, I discuss two questions. The first question is why. Why have so many central banks switched from individual to group decisionmaking? The second question is how. How should central banks make decisions and how should they communicate with the public, the government, and the markets?<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' What are the true lessons from the inflation of the 1970s? Alan Blinder, former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, thinks we have learned the right lessons. Inflation is under far better control, he argues, and he thinks the Fed under the new chairman will do fine. But he is concerned that wages are not rising.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Alan Greenspan was sworn in as Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System almost exactly 18 years ago. At the time, the Reagan administration was being rocked by the Iran-contra scandal. The Berlin Wall was standing tall while, in the Soviet Union, Mikhail Gorbachev had just presented proposals for perestroika. The stock market had not crashed since 1929 and, probably by coincidence, Prozac had just been released on the market. The New York Mets, having won the 1986 World Series, were the reigning champions of major league baseball. A lot can change in 18 years.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Two experiments were conducted to test the common hypothesis that groups make decisions more slowly than individuals. One of these experiments imitates real-life monetary policy decisions. In both cases, the hypothesis is found wanting: groups are not slower than individuals. In both experiments, we also find that group decisions are on average better than individual decisions. This holds regardless of whether the groups make decisions by unanimity or majority rule. Simple mechanical theories of group decisionmaking--that the group follows its average player, median player, or best player--do not explain the results. Group interactions seem to matter.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Public opinion influences politicians, and therefore influences public policy decisions. What are the roles of self-interest, knowledge, and ideology in public opinion formation? And how do people learn about economic issues? Using a new, specially-designed survey, we find that most respondents express a strong desire to be well informed on economic policy issues, and that television is their dominant source of information. On a variety of major policy issues (e.g., taxes, social security, health insurance), ideology is the most important determinant of public opinion, while measures of self-interest are the least important. Knowledge about the economy ranks somewhere in between.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['There has been a major switch from equity to debt finance in recent years, associated with a fall in the long-term rate of interest. The paper explores the macro-economic causes of the sea change in interest rates (lower budget deficits, independent central banks, lower inflation expectations) and the micro-economic consequences. Firms are taking on more debt partly for tax reasons and partly because at lower interest rates they have better interest cover. This means they can increase their borrowing at lower risk and hence at lower cost. An examination of a cross section of UK firms from the FTSE 350 shows two major influences on the debt-to-value ratio of large firms. Firms with healthy cash flow are allowed to borrow against that income; and firms whose income is relatively invariant across the economic cycle (as measured by a low asset beta) can afford a higher level of debt.'] ['This wide-ranging discussion takes in the development of macroeconomics and the influence of ideas and events on that development, the nature and causes of the Great Depression, Keynesianism, lessons from the high-inflation period of the 1970s, the role of macroeconomic policy, and the idea of the \xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xcb\x9cnew economy\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x84\xa2.'] ["Central bank credibility plays a pivotal role in much of the modern literature on monetary policy, yet it is difficult to measure or even assess objectively. A survey of central bankers was conducted to determine their attitudes on two important issues: why credibility matters, and how credibility can be built. The central bankers' answers are compared with the responses of NBER-affiliated macro and monetary economists. The two groups agree much more than they disagree. They are particularly united in their evaluations of ways to make a central bank credible -- assigning high ratings to the central bank's track record and low ratings to theoretical ideas like precommitment and incentive-compatible contracts.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['Among the many unusual aspects of life in a very-low-inflation economy that might have been discussed, attention here has focussed on the zero lower bound on nominal interest rates. That was a wise choice, I think, for the conduct of monetary policy at or near zero nominal interest rates raises many questions which economists have not thought much about. Fundamentally, the issue is this: Does an economy with a zero nominal interest rate follow more or less the same economic laws as it does in normal times--except that one variable is stuck at zero? Or is the situation more akin to physics at zero gravity, or near absolute zero temperature, where behavior is fundamentally different, even strange? I think the conclusion we seem to be reaching here at Woodstock is that it may indeed be a new world, Tevye.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Academic writing about monetary policy has been useful to practical central bankers, but more of (certain aspects of) the economists' way of thinking could profitably be imported. On the other hand, academics could improve their analysis, and make it more useful to policymakers, if they would pay more attention to certain 'real-world' aspects of monetary policy. The author draws on his experience at the Federal Reserve Board to point out a number of specific lessons for each side."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["The role of the dollar as an international currency is explored factually, with emphasis on a frequently asked question: Is the dollar's dominance declining? The suggested answer is yes, but quite gradually. Implications of this slow decline are briefly explored."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The authors show that the interest rate on Federal funds is extremely informative about future movements of real macroeconomic variables. Then they argue that the reason for this forecasting success is that the funds rate sensitively records shocks to the supply of bank reserves; that is, the funds rate is a good indicator of monetary policy actions. Finally, using innovations to the funds rate as a measure of changes in policy, the authors present evidence consistent with the view that monetary policy works at least in part through "credit" (i.e., bank loans) as well as through "money" (i.e., bank deposits). Copyright 1992 by American Economic Association.'] [' The authors argue that lumpy, nonconvex transaction costs are the norm for a wide range of economic decisions, which are thus characterized by inertial behavior. Application of this idea to the consumption of durable goods yields an (S,s) decision rule, which, when aggregated, highlights the different expected behavior of average expenditure per purchase versus the number of purchases. The empirical implications of this rule are presented and compared to other theories. A battery of empirical tests generally supports the predictions of the model; in particular, it does a good job of explaining the time pattern of response of spending on durables to a change in income. Copyright 1992 by Ohio State University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper reports preliminary results from a large research project on business pricing which is currently underway. The idea is to use interviews with actual price setters to assess the validity of a dozen theories of price stickiness. The rather unorthodox (for economists) methodology is defended; the research design is described briefly; and a few results based on the first 72 interviews (out of a projected 200) are presented. This sample suggests that the median firm changes its price annually and that price adjustments typically lag 3-4 months behind shocks to demand or cost.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Empirical and theoretical aspects of inventory behavior became hot topics in the 1950s and early 1960s. No one seemed to notice the tension that was developing between the emerging macroeconomic and microeconomic views of inventories. Macroeconomists routinely thought of inventories as a destabilizing factor, yet the prevailing micro theory viewed inventories as a stabilizing factor. It was a fascinating question that was barely explored. Instead somewhat inexplicably, interest in inventories dried up, as if inventories were of minor economic significance and little intrinsic interest. By the early 1980s, then, economists once again knew something they had known in the 1950s: that inventory investment is of first-order importance in business cycles. But they were also beginning to realize that the standard production-smoothing/buffer-stock model of inventories was in deep trouble. This paper focuses on developments since that realization.'] [' Recent empirical and theoretical research on business inventories is surveyed and critically evaluated. While most inventory research has had macroeconomic motivations, the authors focus on its microtheoretic basis and on potential conflicts between theory and evidence. The paper asks two principal questions. First, how can inventories, which are allegedly used by firms to stabilize production, nonetheless be a destabilizing factor at the macroeconomic level? Second, why, if firms are following the production-smoothing model, is production more variable than sales in many industries? They suggest that the so-called (S,s) model may help answer both questions. Copyright 1991 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd'] ['This paper argues that interviews and surveys are an underutilized research tool in economics. In particular, it defends the propositions that the interview method might work better than more conventional theory and econometrics as a way to learn about the reasons for wage and price stickiness. The research design for a large-scale interview study of pricing behavior is described in detail. This study will "test" the empirical relevance of twelve different theories.'] [' A small interview survey was undertaken to see how actual wage-setters would react to the central ideas of several economic theories of wage stickiness. Wage cuts were surprisingly prevalent in recent years, despite the booming economy. The strongest finding was that managers believe that perceptions of fairness play a major motivational role in labor markets and that a "fair" wage policy is a good deal more complicated than simply not cutting wages. The authors also found substantial evidence for money illusion and against the adverse-selection version of the efficiency wage model. Copyright 1990, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Keynesian economics came under much criticism in the 1970s. This paper argues that the decline in Keynesian economics and the rise in, notably, new classical economics in this period is related to their respective theoretical appeal rather than their ability to explain developments in the macroeconomy. As this has become increasingly recognized, and with the development of sound microeconomic foundations, Keynesian economics has again been on the rise. Copyright 1988 by The Economic Society of Australia.'] ['Standard models of aggregate demand treat money and credit asymmetrically; money is given a special status, while loans, bonds, and other debt instruments are lumped together in a "bond market" and suppressed by Walras\' Law. This makes bank liabilities central to the monetary transmission mechanism, while giving no role to bank assets. We show how to modify a textbook IS-UI model so as to permit a more balanced treatment. As in Tobin (1969) and Brunner-Meltzer (1972), the key assumption is that loans and bonds are imperfect substitutes. In the modified model, credit supply and demand shocks have independent effects on aggregate demand; the nature of the monetary transmission mechanism is also somewhat different. The main policy implication is that the relative value of money and credit as policy indicators depends on the variances of shocks to money and credit demand. We present some evidence that money-demand shocks have become more important relative to credit-demand shocks during the 1980s.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['It is argued that policymakers, macroeconomists and microeconomists should all take high unemployment more seriously. The shortcomings of existing theories of unemployment are discussed, and a new definition of involuntary unemployment is proposed. A model is sketched in which falling aggregate demand leads to "Keynesian" unemployment because labor is heterogeneous and relative wages matter. Microeconomic theory is criticized for assuming away unemployment and, in the process, radically changing the answers to some basic questions in trade theory and public finance. Finally, some speculative explanations are offered for the low unemployment now found in states like New Jersey and Massachusetts.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["This paper presents an extension of the life cycle permanent-income model of consumption to the case of a durable good whose purchase involves limpy transactions costs. By integrating the advancement/postponement decision in the individual's analysis, the implications of the model are different in some respects from those of standard consumption theory. Using explicit aggregation it is shown that expenditures on durables display very large short-run elasticity to changes in permanent income. Empirical tests generally produce results that are in line with the theory."] ['This paper presents two macro models in which central bank policy has real effects on the supply side of the economy due to credit rationing. In each model, there are two possible regimes, depending on whether credit is or is not rationed. Starting from an unrationed equilibrium, either a large enough contraction of bank reserves or a large enough rise in aggregate demand can lead to rationing. Monetary (fiscal) policy is shown to be more (less) powerful when there is rationing than when there is not. In the first model, credit rationing reduces working capital. There is a failure of effective supply in that credit-starved firms must reduce production below national supply. The resulting excess demand in the goods market may in turn drive prices up and reduce the real supply of credit further, leading to further reductions in supply and a stagflationary spiral. In the second model, credit rationing reduces investment, which cuts into both aggregate demand and supply. Despite the effect on demand, stagflationary instability is still possible. A rise in government spending crowds out investment in the rationed regime but crowds in investment in the unrationed regime.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The production smoothing model of inventory behavior has a long and venerable history, and theoretical foundations which seem very strong. Yet certain overwhelming facts seem not only to defy explanation within the production smoothing framework, but actually to argue that the basic idea of production smoothing is all wrong. Most prominent wnong these is the fact that the variance of detrended production exceeds the variance of detrended sales.This paper first documents the stylized facts. Then it derives the production smoothing model rigorously and explains how the model can be amended to make it consistent with the facts. Next, estimates of stock adjustment equations derived from the theory are presented and evaluated. Finally, it reviews the theoretical and empirical evidence and tries to drawsome tentative conclusions.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["When empirical stock-adjustment models of manufacturers' inventories of finished goods are estimated, there appear to be two local minima in the sum of squared residuals functions. At one local minimum, the estimated adjustment speed is typically quite high; at the other, it is typically quite low. Furthermore, finding two sets of estimates that fit the data almost equally well does not appear to be a quirk of this particular application. Rather, it stems from a fundamental identification problem that afflicts partial adjustment models of all kinds. In the specific context of manufacturers' inventories of finished goods, the estimation procedure employed by Maccini and Rossana seems to pick out the solution with rapid adjustment (and high serial correlation in the disturbances) whereas the solution with slow adjustment (and little serial correlation) is more often the global minimum.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Economists have an instinctively negative reaction to any government program that creates a "notch," that is, a discontinuity in a budget constraint. For example, welfare programs like public housing are structured so that a finite lump of benefits is lost all at once when a household\'s income crosses a certain threshhold. Such notches deserve their bad reputation --they effectively impose a high marginal tax rate over a small income range, which no doubt discourages work and promotes welfare dependency. However,this paper argues that in other contexts, tax and subsidy plans with notches should at least be considered as serious contenders when public policy seeks to encourage or discourage some activity. Using simulations,we show how notch schemes can dominate traditional linear schemes using a standard efficiency criterion.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['While most Americans have long favored a balanced federal budget , not all do. This paper uses cross-sectional differences among respondents to two public opinion polls to try to discriminate among competing hypotheses about why Americans want the budget balanced. Logit models are fit to data from two different public opinion polls : a Gallup poll and a CBS/New York Times poll conducted , respectively, in March and April of 1980, a time when the proposed balanced budget amendment to the Constitution was very much in the news. In each case , a large majority favored a balanced budget requirement. However, they favor it for a smorgasbord of reasons and at unclear price. It appears that political affiliation, ideology and personal circumstances are far less important determinants of the choice than economic rationales.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["This paper presents a model of a multi-sector economy in which each sector is characterized by a different type of wage or price stickiness. The various sectors experience the same exogenous shocks and have the same money supply. The analysis shows demand shocks pose no serious problems for stabilization policy. In contrast, supply shocks force the policymaker to choose between stability in one sector and stability in another. The analysis also shows the economy cannot be usefully aggregated into a single sector model. Such an aggregation misleads the economist as to the economy's underlying structure and obscures the tradeoffs the policymaker must confront. In particular, a feedback rule chosen on the basis of an aggregate model could be better or worse than a passive policy.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['When government expenditures exceed current tax revenues, the resulting deficit must be financed either by issuing bonds, which imply obligations to levy future taxes, or by creating high-powered money. The choice between money and bonds is often thought to be of great moment for both real and nominal variables; that is, monetary policy matters.There is by now a wide empirical consensus that monetary policy has effects on real variables like output and employment. But there is far less agreement about why this is so. The purpose of this paper is to take issue with some currently fashionable views of why money has real effects,and to suggest a new theory, or rather resurrect an old one--the loanable funds theory--and give it new, improved microfoundations.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The role of inventories in making prices "sticky" is studied by analyzing a dynamic linear-quadratic model of a monopoly firm facing stochastic demand, but able to store its finished goods in inventory. It is shown that, in contrast to the usual presumption, firms that exhibit the smallest output responses to demand fluctuations may also exhibit the smallest price fluctuations. Specifically, firms which have very flexible inventory storage facilities or are subjected to very transitory demand shocks will rely on inventories as buffers, and will change neither production nor price very much. On the other hand, firms which have very inflexible storage facilities or whose demand shocks are quite permanent will display large swings in both price and output. The standard assumption about inventory carrying costs that has been used in the literature (that they are linear) is shown to imply that production is impervious to fluctuations in demand. It is also established that prices may respond more strongly to positive demand shocks than to negative ones if it is impossible to hold negative inventories (i.e., to have unfilled orders). The model offers an explanation for "stickiness" in relative prices. However, under certain circumstances, it may help explain the persistence of inflation<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In dealing with the expectationists\' arguments, I will divide them (somewhat artificially) into two groups. Arguments in the first group, which I call "present disaster" arguments, allege that econometric models err by understating the reaction of inflationary expectations. For example, it is claimed that a policy of monetary accommodation would increase inflationary expectations, shift the short-run Phillips curve upward, and defeat the purpose of the expansionary policy. Arguments in the second group, which I call "future disaster" arguments, are more subtle, but also more elusive. The idea is that by informing private agents that it will accommodate supply shocks in the future, the monetary authority would exacerbate the downward rigidity of wages and prices, thus making it more difficult to deal with future supply shocks. Such arguments are cases of the Lucas [12] econometric policy critique, since they suggest that policy changes will cause parameter shifts. Neither of these arguments is implausible on its face. The problem is that it is hard to know how to evaluate them until they are formalized in theoretical models and then tested empirically. This paper takes one small step in that direction by augmenting two popular macro models with rational expectations so that they are capable of dealing with supply shocks, and then examining both the present and future disaster arguments in the context of each.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The message of this paper can be summed up in two words: inventories matter. They matter empirically, in the sense that inventory developments are of major importance in the propagation of business cycles; and they matter theoretically, in the sense that recognition of their existence changes the structure of a variety of theoretical macromodels in some fairly important ways. This paper is mainly about the implications of inventories for the structure of theoretical macro models, but I begin by demonstrating the empirical importance of inventories in business fluctuations<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The simplest macroeconomic models in which markets clear instantaneously, and expectations are rational preclude the existence of "business cycles," that is, of serially correlated deviations of output from trend. This paper studies one of several mechanisms that can be used to make these so-called "new-classical" models produce business cycles; the mechanism is the gradual adjustment of inventory stocks. Two microeconomic models of inventory holdings are formulated. Both imply, first, that current output should be a decreasing function of the stock of inventories and, second, that inventories, once perturbed from equilibrium levels, should adjust only gradually. These two features are then embedded into an otherwise standard macroeconomic model in which markets clear instantaneously and expectations are rational. Two principal conclusions are reached. First, disturbances such as unanticipated changes in money will set in motion serially correlated deviations of output from trend. Second, if desired inventories are sensitive to the real interest rate, then even fully anticipated changes in money can affect real variables.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Both economic theory and casual empirical observation of the U.S. economy suggest that spending propensities from temporary tax changes are smaller than those from permanent ones, but neither provides much guidance about the magnitude of this difference. This paper offers new empirical estimates of this difference and finds it to he quite substantial. The analysis is based on an amendment of the standard distributed lag version of the permanent in-conic hypothesis that distinguishes temporary taxes from other income on the grounds that the former are "more transitory." This amendment, which is broadly consistent with rational expectations, leads to a nonlinear consumption function. Though the standard error is unavoidably large, the point estimate suggests that a temporary tax change is treated as a 50-50 blend of a normal income tax change and a pure windfall. Over a 1-year planning horizon, a temporary tax change is estimated to have only a little more than half the impact of a permanent tax change of equal magnitude, and a rebate is estimated to have only about 38 percent of the impact.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper provides new empirical evidence on the effects of the Nixon wage-price controls on the price level. The major new wrinkle is that the controls are treated as a quantitative (rather than just a qualitative) phenomenon through the use of a specially-constructed series indicating the fraction of the economy that was controlled. According to the estimates, by February 1974controls had lowered the non-food non-energy price level by 3-4 percent. After that point, and especially after controls ended in April 1974, a period of rapid 'catch up' inflation eroded the gains that had been achieved, leaving the price level from zero to 2 percent below what it would have been in the absence of controls. The dismantling of controls can thus account for most of the burst of 'double digit' inflation in non-food and non-energy prices during 1974.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The paper is an empirical cross-section study of the retirement decisions of American white men between the ages of 58 and 67. predicated on the theoretical notion that an individual retires when his reservation wage exceeds his market wage. Reservation wages are derived from an explicit utility function in which the most critical taste parameter is assumed to vary both systematically and randomly across individuals. Market wages are derived from a standard wage equation adjusted to the special circumstances of older workers. The two equations are estimated jointly by maximum likelihood, which takes into account the potential selectivity bias inherent in the model (low-wage individuals tend to retire and cease reporting their market wage). The model is reasonably successful in predicting retirement decisions, and casts serious doubt on previous claims that the social security system induces many workers to retire earlier than they otherwise would. The normal effects of aging (on both market and reservation wages) and the incentives set up by private pension plans are estimated to be major causes of retirement.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['An otherwise conventional Keynesian macro model is modified to include inventories of final goods by (1) drawing a distinction between production and final sales, and (2) allowing for a negative effect of the level of inventories on production. Two models are presented: one in which the labor market clears and one in which it does not. Both models are stable only if the negative effect of inventories on production is "large enough." Both models also imply that real wages move counter cyclically -- in direct contrast to the usual implication of Keynesian models. Detailed analysis of the market-clearing model show that there should be negative correlation between the levels of inventories and output, and between changes in inventories and changes in output, over the business cycle. However, inventory change should be positively correlated with the level of output.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["It is by now widely recognized that investment decisions play a major role in the determination of individual age-earnings profiles. The purpose of this paper is to present a simple life-cycle model of investment in human capital in which leisure choices are explicitly incorporated. In so doing, we integrate two previously disparate branches of life-cycle theory: models of labor supply with exogenous wages, and models of human capital formation with exogenous leisure. Of course, to accomplish this, we must posit utility maximization as the individual's goal rather than income maximization.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Regressions explaining the wage rates of white males, black males, and white females are used to analyze the white-black wage differential among men and the male-female wage differential among whites. A distinction is drawn between reduced form and structural wage equations, and both are estimated. They are shown to have very different implications for analyzing the white-black and male-female wage differentials. When the two sets of estimates are synthesized, they jointly imply that 70 percent of the overall race differential and 100 percent of the overall sex differential are ultimately attributable to discrimination of various sorts.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']