 [' Using annual data for 75 countries in the period 1960\xe2\x80\x932000, we present evidence of a positive relationship between investment as a share of gross domestic product (GDP) and the long-run growth rate of GDP per worker. This result is robust for our full sample and for the subsample of non\xe2\x80\x90OECD countries, but not for the subsample of OECD countries. Our analysis controls for time\xe2\x80\x90invariant country\xe2\x80\x90specific heterogeneity in growth rates, and for a range of time\xe2\x80\x90varying control variables. We also address endogeneity issues, and allow for heterogeneity across countries in model parameters and for cross\xe2\x80\x90section dependence. Copyright (C) 2010 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] [' We construct company panel data sets for manufacturing firms in Belgium, France, Germany, and the United Kingdom, covering the period 1978-1989. These data sets are used to estimate empirical investment equations, and to investigate the role played by financial factors in each country. A robust finding is that cash flow and profits terms appear to be both statistically and quantitatively more significant in the United Kingdom than in the three continental European countries. This is consistent with the suggestion that financial constraints on investment may be relatively severe in the more market-oriented U.K. financial system. \xc2\xa9 2003 President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [' In this paper we explore a new approach to estimation for autoregressive panel data models, based on projecting the unobserved individual effects on the vector of observations on the lagged dependent variable. This approach yields estimators which coincide with known generalized method of moments estimators for models where stationarity is not imposed on the initial conditions and for models which satisfy mean stationarity. Our approach allows us to obtain a simple linear estimator for models which satisfy covariance stationarity, which although not fully efficient performs very well in simulations. Copyright Royal Economic Society, 2002'] [" The authors use panel data for 1,218 U.K. industrial and commercial companies between 1970 and 1990 to investigate whether dividends are affected by taxes. Cross-section variation in the tax cost of paying dividends results from surplus advance corporation tax affecting some firms during this period. Observations on firms moving into and out of surplus advanced corporation tax allow them to identify the effect of taxes while controlling for unobserved firm-specific influences. The authors' results suggest that the tax cost has a statistically significant and quantitatively important influence on dividends. Copyright 1996 by Royal Economic Society."] ['Non-domestic rates are a tax that is formally levied on the occupiers of nondomestic property in the United Kingdom. This does not imply that it is only the occupiers of business and other non-domestic property who are made worse off by the imposition of \xe2\x80\x98business rates\xe2\x80\x99. Some or all of the effective burden of nondomestic rates may be shifted backwards from the occupiers of business property to the owners of business property. This occurs if the rents that property owners can charge their tenants are reduced by the imposition of business rates. In this case, the total cost of occupying a business property (i.e. rent plus rates) is increased by less than the full amount of the non-domestic rates paid by occupiers, and part of the burden of business rates is borne by property owners in the form of lower rental income than they would otherwise have received. The effective incidence of non-domestic rates is then said to fall partly on property owners, and only partly on occupiers.'] ['The tax treatment of company dividend payments is an area where corporate taxation interacts with the personal income tax. This interaction raises some awkward issues, such as whether shareholders who are exempt from personal income tax should also be exempt from corporation tax, and if so, then how this can be achieved. The solutions adopted are often complex and certainly diverse, as witnessed by the range of different approaches used in the OECD countries, described in OECD (1991).'] [' In this paper, the authors investigate the sensitivity of investment to the availability of internal funds using the hierarchy of finance approach to corporate finance. They characterize the empirical implications of this approach for dynamic investment models and test these implications using firm-level data. The model the authors estimate is based on the Eulet equation for optimal capital accumulation in the presence of convex adjustment costs. The theoretical model explicitly allows for debt finance and financial assets. The empirical investigation uses U.K. company panel data to estimate dynamic investment models using generalized method of moments and tests the derived implications. Copyright 1994 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] ['The question we address in this paper is whether the investment spending of at least some firms is affected by the availability of internally generated finance (retained earnings), reflecting some constraint on the ability of these firms to raise external finance (debt or new equity) for investment. The opposing view is that the cost at which investment funds can be obtained, taken to be independent of the amount invested, is the only financial consideration that matters in the determination of investment. This is an old question in economics, which has been the subject of several official inquiries as well as a large body of academic research. The answer to this question has a number of important implications. Profits are highly cyclical, so if investment depends directly on the availability of profits then investment spending will be more sensitive to fluctuations in economic activity than would otherwise be the case. This could be an important factor in the propagation of business cycles. If post-tax profits help to determine investment spending then the impact of company taxes on investment will be more complicated than is often assumed. In particular, the average tax rate will influence the level of investment spending, in addition to the impact of taxes on the cost of capital, and any increase in the total revenue raised from corporation tax could have a directly adverse impact on business investment. There may also be an incentive for firms with available internal funds to take over firms whose investment spending is constrained, resulting in take-over activity that would otherwise be inefficient. To the extent that financial constraints on investment spending are attributable to imperfections in capital markets or to market failures, there may also be some motivation for policy measures designed to reduce these impacts, if financial constraints are found to be pervasive.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper presents specification tests that are applicable after estimating a dynamic model from panel data by the generalized method of moments, and studies the practical performance of these procedures using both generated and real data. The authors' generalized method of moments estimator optimally exploits all the linear moment restrictions that follow from the assumption of no serial correlation in the errors in an equation which contains individual effects, lagged dependent variables, and no strictly exogenous variables. They propose a test of serial correlation based on the generalized method of moments residuals and compare this with Sargan tests of over-identifying restrictions and Hausman specification tests. Copyright 1991 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited."] ['No abstract is available for this item.']