 [' It has been difficult to open up the black box of knowledge production. We use unique international data on the publications, citations, and affiliations of mathematicians to examine the impact of a large, post-1992 influx of Soviet mathematicians on the productivity of their U.S. counterparts. We find a negative productivity effect on those mathematicians whose research overlapped with that of the Soviets. We also document an increased mobility rate (to lower quality institutions and out of active publishing) and a reduced likelihood of producing "home run" papers. Although the total product of the preexisting American mathematicians shrank, the Soviet contribution to American mathematics filled in the gap. However, there is no evidence that the Soviets greatly increased the size of the "mathematics pie." Finally, we find that there are significant international differences in the productivity effects of the collapse of the Soviet Union, and these international differences can be explained by both differences in the size of the \xc3\xa9migr\xc3\xa9 flow into the various countries and in how connected each country is to the global market for mathematical publications. JEL Codes: O31, J61. Copyright 2012, Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Although economic theory predicts an inverse relation between relativewages and immigration-induced supply shifts, it has been difficultto document such effects. The weak evidence may be partly due to samplingerror in a commonly used measure of the supply shift, the immigrantshare of the workforce. After controlling for permanent factors thatdetermine wages in specific labor markets, little variation remainsin the immigrant share. We find significant sampling error in thismeasure of supply shifts in Canadian and U.S. census data. Correctingfor the resulting attenuation bias can substantially increase existingestimates of the wage impact of immigration. (c) 2011 by The University of Chicago. Allrights reserved..'] ['En la actualidad el sistema log\xc3\xadstico empresarial se vislumbra bajo diferentes par\xc3\xa1metros, entre los que se destaca la eficacia, en la cual se trata de conseguir que el producto o servicio prestado est\xc3\xa9 disponible cuando se necesite, con la calidad adecuada, la cantidad necesaria y en el plazo oportuno. Por lo tanto, el objetivo del presente art\xc3\xadculo es enumerar los principales elementos que se tienen en cuenta para la evaluaci\xc3\xb3n de la eficacia del sistema log\xc3\xadstico empresarial. Para el cumplimiento del mismo fue necesario apoyarse en la experiencia de los autores en cuanto al tratamiento cient\xc3\xadfico del tema abordado, as\xc3\xad como en la revisi\xc3\xb3n de la bibliograf\xc3\xada de diferentes autores.'] ["The employment rate of native-born men falls at a much faster rate than that of immigrants as the two groups approach the age of retirement. The author draws on U.S. Census data from 1960-2000 to examine how the eligibility requirements for Social Security benefits affect immigrants' decisions to leave the labor market as they near retirement age. Because a person needs to have worked in the United States for at least ten years to qualify for benefits, newly arrived immigrants may not yet have accumulated the requisite employment credits to do this and thus have greater employment rates than other comparably aged persons. The probability that an older immigrant is employed falls once the 10-year work rule is satisfied. The implication of this finding is that immigration may affect the increase in retirement benefits that will inevitably occur as the baby boom generation retires."] [' The employment rate of black men, and particularly of low-skilled black men, fell precipitously between 1960 and 2000. At the same time, their incarceration rate rose. This paper examines the relation between immigration and these trends in employment and incarceration. Using data from the 1960-2000 US censuses, we find that a 10% immigration-induced increase in the supply of workers in a particular skill group reduced the black wage of that group by 2.5%, lowered the employment rate by 5.9 percentage points, and increased the incarceration rate by 1.3 percentage points. Copyright (c) The London School of Economics and Political Science 2009.'] ['Although a sizable fraction of the Puerto Rican\xe2\x80\x93born population moved to the United States, the island also received large inflows of persons born outside Puerto Rico. Hence Puerto Rico provides a unique setting for examining how labor inflows and outflows coexist and measuring the mirror\xe2\x80\x90image wage impact of these flows. The study yields two findings. First, the skills of the out\xe2\x80\x90migrants differ from those of the in\xe2\x80\x90migrants. Puerto Rico attracts high\xe2\x80\x90skill in\xe2\x80\x90migrants and exports low\xe2\x80\x90skill workers. Second, the two flows have opposing effects on wages: in\xe2\x80\x90migrants lower the wage of competing workers, and out\xe2\x80\x90migrants increase the wage.'] [' Using data drawn from the Canadian, Mexican, and U.S. censuses, we find a numerically comparable and statistically significant inverse relation between immigrant-induced shifts in labor supply and wages in each of the three countries: A 10% labor supply shift is associated with a 3%-4% opposite-signed change in wages. Despite the similarity in the wage response, the impact of migration on the wage structure differs significantly across countries. International migration narrowed wage inequality in Canada; increased it in the United States; and reduced the relative wage of workers at the bottom of the skill distribution in Mexico. (JEL: J31, J61) (c) 2007 by the European Economic Association.'] ['This paper presents a theoretical and empirical study of how immigration influences the joint determination of the wage structure and internal migration behavior for native-born workers in local labor markets. Using data from the 1960\xe2\x80\x932000 decennial censuses, the study shows that immigration is associated with lower in-migration rates, higher out-migration rates, and a decline in the growth rate of the native workforce. The native migration response attenuates the measured impact of immigration on wages in a local labor market by 40 to 60 percent, depending on whether the labor market is defined at the state or metropolitan area level.'] ['This article was presented at a conference organized by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in April 2005, "Urban Dynamics in New York City." The goal of the conference was threefold: to examine the historical transformations of the engine-of-growth industries in New York and distill the main determinants of the city\'s historical dominance as well as the challenges to its continued success; to study the nature and evolution of immigration flows into New York; and to analyze recent trends in a range of socioeconomic outcomes, both for the general population and recent immigrants more specifically.'] ['The rapid growth in the number of foreign students enrolled in American universities has transformed the higher education system, particularly at the graduate level. Many of these newly minted doctorates remain in the United States after receiving their doctoral degrees, so that the foreign student influx can have a significant impact in the labor market for high-skill workers. Using data drawn from the Survey of Earned Doctorates and the Survey of Doctoral Recipients, the study shows that a foreign student influx into a particular doctoral field at a particular time had a significant and adverse effect on the earnings of doctorates in that field who graduated at roughly the same time. A 10 percent immigration-induced increase in the supply of doctorates lowers the wage of competing workers by about 3 percent.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper examines if welfare programs reduce the probability that vulnerable household experience food deprivation because of financial constraints. Although the 1996 welfare reform legislation specifically limited the eligibility of immigrant households to receive assistance, many states chose to protect their immigrant populations by offering state-funded aid to these groups. I exploit these changes in eligibility rules to examine the link between food insecurity and public assistance. The evidence indicates that a 10 percentage point cut in the fraction of the population that receives public assistance increases the fraction of food-insecure households by about 5 percentage points.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Although the 1996 welfare reform legislation limited the eligibility of immigrant households to receive assistance, many states chose to protect their immigrant populations by offering state-funded aid to these groups. I exploit these changes in eligibility rules to examine the link between the welfare cutbacks and health insurance coverage in the immigrant population. The data reveal that the cutbacks in the Medicaid program did not reduce health insurance coverage rates among targeted immigrants. The immigrants responded by increasing their labor supply, thereby raising the probability of being covered by employer-sponsored health insurance.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Immigration is not evenly balanced across groups of workers who have the same education but differ in their work experience, and the nature of the supply imbalance changes over time. This paper develops a new approach for estimating the labor market impact of immigration by exploiting this variation in supply shifts across education-experience groups. I assume that similarly educated workers with different levels of experience participate in a national labor market and are not perfect substitutes. The analysis indicates that immigration lowers the wage of competing workers: a 10 percent increase in supply reduces wages by 3 to 4 percent. \xc2\xa9 2001 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['This paper analyzes the determinants of homeownership in immigrant households over the 1980-2000 period. The study finds that immigrants have lower homeownership rates than natives and that the homeownership gap widened significantly during that period. The differential location decisions of immigrant and native households, as well as the changing national origin mix of the immigrant population, helps explain much of the homeownership gap. The evidence also indicates that the growth of ethnic enclaves in major American cities could become an important factor in increasing immigrant demand for owner-occupied housing in many metropolitan areas.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper examines how dollarization affects wages and employment in the Mexican labor market. Dollarization is modeled as a fixed real exchange rate and also as a potentially increased inflow of capital from abroad. The effects of dollarization depend upon whether adopting a fixed exchange reduces the rate of return on emigration and helps to attract foreign capital. The paper investigates how Mexican emigration to the United States responds to changes in bilateral economic conditions. The evidence indicates that the flow of illegal immigrants from Mexico into the United States is sensitive to economic conditions and is more volatile when the Mexican monetary authorities have fixed the exchange rate in the past. In contrast, the legal immigrant flow is not sensitive to changes in relative economic conditions.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The large literature that analyzes the impact of immigration on the United States typically focuses on measuring the labor market and fiscal consequences. This literature, however, has ignored the impact of immigration on other sectors of society. One sector that is of great interest is the American university, where the share of nonresident aliens in the graduate student population rose from 5.5 percent in 1976 to 10.5 percent in 1996. Despite the rapid growth in the number of foreign students, little is known about their impact on the educational process. Nevertheless, undergraduates frequently complain that the lack of English language proficiency among many foreign-born Teaching Assistants affects adversely their understanding of the material. This paper addresses the question that is at the heart of these complaints: Do foreign-born teaching assistants have an adverse impact on the scholastic achievement of American undergraduates? To provide empirical evidence on this issue, I use data drawn from a survey of undergraduates enrolled in economics principles classes at a large public university. The data suggest that foreign-born Teaching Assistants have an adverse impact on the class performance of undergraduate students.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This article investigates if the location choices made by immigrants when they arrive in the United States are influenced by the interstate dispersion in welfare benefits. Income-maximizing behavior implies that foreign-born welfare recipients, unlike their native-born counterparts, may be clustered in the states that offer the highest benefits. The empirical analysis indicates that immigrant welfare recipients are indeed more heavily clustered in high-benefit states than the immigrants who do not receive welfare, or than natives. As a result, the welfare participation rate of immigrants is much more sensitive to changes in welfare benefits than that of natives. Copyright 1999 by University of Chicago Press.'] ["This paper analyzes the link between ethnicity and the choice of residing in ethnically segregated neighborhoods. Data drawn from the National Longitudinal Surveys of Youth show that there exist strong human capital externalities both within and across ethnic groups. As a result, the segregation choices made by particular households depend both on the household's economic opportunities and on aggregate characteristics of the ethnic groups. The evidence suggests that highly skilled persons who belong to disadvantaged groups have lower probabilities of ethnic residential segregation relative to the choices made by the most skilled persons in the most skilled groups.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper documents the extent to which immigrants participate in the many programs that make up the welfare state. The immigrant-native difference in the probability of receiving cash benefits is small but the gap widens once other programs are included in the analysis: 21 percent of immigrant households receive some type of assistance as compared with only 14 percent of native households. The types of benefits received by earlier immigrants influence the types of benefits received by newly arrived immigrants. Hence, there might be ethnic networks that transmit information about the availability of particular benefits to new immigrants. Copyright 1996, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['We compare two approaches to analyzing the effects of immigration on the labor market and find that the estimated effect of immigration on U.S. native labor outcomes depends critically on the empirical experiment used. Area analyses contrast the level or change in immigration by area with the level or change in the outcomes of non- immigrant workers. Factor proportions analyses treat immigrants as a source of increased national supply of workers of the relevant skill. Cross-section comparisons of wages and immigration in the 1980 and 1990 Censuses yield unstable results casting doubt on the validity of these calculations. Analyses of changes over time for various education groups within regions give negative estimated immigration effects, which increase in magnitude the wider the area covered. Factor proportions calculations show that immigration was somewhat important in reducing the relative pay of U.S. high school dropouts during the 1980s, while immigration and trade contributed much more modestly to the falling pay of high school equivalent workers. The different effects of immigration on native outcomes in the area and factor proportions methodologies appear to result from the diluting effect of native migration flows across regions and failure to take adequate account of other regional labor market conditions in area comparisons.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper analyzes the return migration of foreign-born persons in the United States. The authors argue that return migration may have been planned as part of an optimal life-cycle residential location sequence. Return migration also occurs because immigrants based their initial migration decision on erroneous information about opportunities in the United States. The study uses the 1980 Census and administrative data from the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Immigrants tend to return to wealthy countries that are not too far from the United States. Moreover, return migration accentuates the type of selection characterizing the immigrant population left in the United States. Copyright 1996 by MIT Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This article uses the 1970, 1980, and 1990 Public Use Samples of the U.S. census to document what happened to immigrant earnings in the 1980s and to determine if pre-1980 immigrant flows reached earnings parity with natives. The relative entry wage of successive immigrant cohorts declined by 9 percent in the 1970s and by an additional 6 percent in the 1980s. Although the relative wage of immigrants grows by 10 percent during the first two decades after arrival, recent immigrants will earn 15-20 percent less than natives throughout much of their working lives. Copyright 1995 by University of Chicago Press.'] ["Natives benefit from immigration mainly because of production complementarities between immigrant workers and other factors of production, and these benefits are larger when immigrants are sufficiently 'different' from the stock of native productive inputs. The available evidence suggests that the economic benefits from immigration for the United States are small, on the order of $6 billion and almost certainly less than $20 billion annually. These gains, however, could be increased considerably if the United States pursued an immigration policy that attracted a more skilled immigrant flow."] [" The socioeconomic performance of today's workers depends not only on parental skills but also on the average skills of the ethnic group in the parents' generation (or ethnic capital). This paper investigates the link between the ethnic externality and ethnic neighborhoods. The evidence indicates that residential segregation and the external effect of ethnicity are linked, partly because ethnic capital summarizes the socioeconomic background of the neighborhood where the children were raised. Ethnicity has an external effect, even among persons who grow up in the same neighborhood, when children are exposed frequently to persons who share the same ethnic background. Copyright 1995 by American Economic Association."] [' This paper investigates the link between the trend in the returns to education and foreign competition in concentrated industries. The authors argue that the impact of foreign competition on the relative wages of less skilled workers depends on the market structure of the industry penetrated. The empirical evidence indicates that employment changes in a small group of trade-impacted concentrated industries can explain not only part of the aggregate rise in wage inequality in the United States but also some of the differences in the trends in wage inequality across metropolitan areas. Copyright 1995, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['The increasing internationalization of the U.S. labor market has had important effects on the wage structure. Immigration has probably increased wage inequality because recent immigrant waves tend to be less skilled than earlier waves. Growing trade deficits in durable goods have also increased wage inequality by reducing the relatively high wages of less-skilled workers in these industries and by displacing workers from them.'] ['This paper investigates whether the ethnic skill differentials introduced into the United States by the inflow of very dissimilar immigrant groups during the Great Migration of 1880-1910 have disappeared during the past century. An analysis of the 1910, 1940, and 1980 Censuses and the General Social Surveys reveals that those ethnic differentials have indeed narrowed, but that it might take four generations, or roughly 100 years, for them to disappear. The analysis also indicates that the economic mobility experienced by American-born blacks, especially since World War Two, resembles that of the white ethnic groups that made up the Great Migration. (Abstract courtesy JSTOR.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper outlines a two-stage technique for estimation and inference in probit models with structural group effects. The structural group specification belongs to a broader class of random components models. In particular, individuals in a given group share a common component in the specification of the conditional mean of a latent variable. For a number of computational reasons, existing random-effects models are impractical for estimation and inference in this type of problem. Our two-stage estimator provides an easily estimable alternative to the random effect specification. In addition, we conduct a Monte Carlo simulation comparing the performance of alternative estimators, and find that the two-stage estimator is superior -- both in terms of estimation and inference -- to traditional estimators.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper investigates the hypothesis that ethnicity has spillover effects on the human capital accumulation process. It extends previous research by documenting the extent to which the relative importance of parental inputs and ethnic spillovers in the intergenerational transmission of skills differs both within and across immigrant and US-born ethnic groups. Using data drawn from the General Social Surveys, the study documents that the second and third generation (i.e., the children and grandchildren of immigrants) experience relatively more rapid economic advancement than do other generations, and that ethnic spillovers play a stronger role in households which are at the extremes of the skill distribution.'] [" This article analyzes the intergenerational mobility of immigrants. Using the 1940-70 censuses, the study reveals an important link between the earnings of immigrants and the earnings of their American-born children. Although there is some regression toward the mean, the earnings of second-generation Americans are strongly affected by variables describing economic conditions in the source countries of their parents. Current immigration policy, therefore, not only determines how immigrants perform in the labor market but also determines tomorrow's differences in the labor market experiences of American-born ethnic groups. Copyright 1993 by University of Chicago Press."] ['This paper explores national origin differences in the welfare recipiency of immigrants to the United States. We develop an economic model of immigration which generates implications about how welfare utilization should vary according to characteristics of the country of origin. The empirical analysis reveals that a few source country characteristics explain over two-thirds of the variance of welfare recipiency rates across national origin groups, and changes in the average source country characteristics of the foreign-born population between 1970 and 1980 can account for most of the rise in immigrant welfare use that occurred over the decade.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper analyzes the extent to which ethnic skill differentials are transmitted across generations. The author assumes that ethnicity acts as an externality in the human capital accumulation process. The skills of the next generation depend on parental inputs and on the quality of the ethnic environment in which parents make their investments or "ethnic capital." The empirical evidence reveals that the skills of today\'s generation depend not only on the skills of their parents but also on the average skills of the ethnic group in the parent\'s generation. Copyright 1992, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [' This paper investigates if young internal migrants in the United States experience economic assimilation as they adapt to their new residential location. Using data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth, the authors examine how the hourly earnings of interstate migrants are affected by the number of years they have spent in their destination state. Their study indicates that internal migrants initially earn less than natives but that this wage differential disappears within a few years. Moreover, the initial wage disadvantage of internal migrants depends upon the distance moved and economic conditions in the destination labor market. Copyright 1992 by MIT Press.'] ['Within the conceptual framework of the Roy model, this paper provides an empirical analysis of internal migration flows using data from the National Longitudinal Surveys of Youth. The theoretical approach highlights regional differences in the returns to skills: regions that pay higher returns to skills attract more skilled workers than regions that pay lower returns. Our empirical results suggest that interstate differences in the returns to skills are a major determinant of both the size and skill composition of internal migration flows. Persons whose skills are most mismatched with the reward structure offered by their current state of residence are the persons most likely to leave that state. and these persons tend to relocate in states which offer higher rewards for their particular skills.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This article studies the role of the family in determining the skill composition and labor-market experiences of immigrants in the United States. The authors' theoretical framework, based on the assumption that family migration decisions maximize household income, shows that the family attenuates the selection characterizing the skills of the immigrant population. The empirical analysis uses the 1970 and 1980 Public Use Samples of the U.S. census and reveals that an immigrant's skills and labor market performance are greatly influenced by the composition of the household at the time of migration and by his placement in the immigration chain. Copyright 1991 by University of Chicago Press."] ['This paper presents an empirical analysis of immigrant participation in the welfare system using the 1970 and 1980 U.S. Censuses. The availability of two cross-sections allows for identification of cohort and assimilation effects. The data indicate that recent immigrant cohorts use the welfare system more intensively than earlier cohorts. In addition, the longer an immigrant household has been in the United States, the more likely it is to receive welfare. The analysis also suggests that a single factor, the changing national origin mix of the immigrant flow, accounts for much of the increase in welfare participation rates across successive immigrant waves. (Abstract courtesy JSTOR.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper analyzes the relationship between earnings and the extent of assimilation, cohort quality change, and return migration experienced by the foreign-born population. The study uses the longitudinal data available in the Survey of Natural and Social Scientists and Engineers. The analysis reveals that there was a sizable decline in the skills of this population over the last two decades. In addition, the study shows that return migration is more likely among immigrants who did not perform well in the U.S. labor market. Copyright 1989 by Oxford University Press.'] [' Self-employment rates and incomes differ significantly by race. The authors show that these differentials arise in markets with consumer discrimination and incomplete information about the price of the good and the race of the seller. Equilibrium income distributions have two properties: mean black incomes are lower than mean white incomes, and the returns to ability are lower for black than for white sellers. Able blacks, therefore, are less likely to self-select into the self-employment sector than able whites. Using the 1980 census data, the authors find that observed racial differences in the self-employment income distributions are consistent with the theoretical predictions. Copyright 1989 by University of Chicago Press.'] [' This paper analyzes the way in which the earnings of the immigrant population may be expected to differ from the earnings of the native population because of the endogeneity of the migration decision. The conditions that determine the nature of the self-selection are derived and depend on economic and political characteristics of the sending and receiving countries. The empirical analysis shows that differences in the U.S. earnings of immigrants with the same measured skills, but from different home countries, are attributable to variations in conditions in the country of origin at the time of migration. Copyright 1987 by American Economic Association.'] ['This paper investigates the extent of labor market competition among immigrants, minorities, and the native population. An analysis of 1980 U.S. Census data reveals that immigrants tend to be substitutes for some labor market groups and complements for others. The effects of shifts in immigrant supply on the earnings of native-born men are, however, very small. On the other hand, increases in the supply of immigrants do have a sizable impact on the earnings of immigrants themselves: an increase of 10% in the supply of immigrants, for example, reduces the immigrant wage by about 10 percent. (Abstract courtesy JSTOR.)'] ['Self-employment is an important aspect of the immigrant experience in the labor market. Self-employment rates for immigrants exceed 15 percent for some national groups. Using the 1970 and 1980 U.S. Censuses, the analysis shows that self-employment rates of immigrants exceed those of native-born men; that there is a strong, positive impact of assimilation on self-employment rates; that more recent waves of immigrants are opting with increasing frequency for the self-employment option; and that part of the immigrant/native-born differential in self-employment rates can be attributed to "enclave" effects.'] ['This paper investigates whether the parameters of labor demand functions are sensitive to alternative methods of estimation. The assumption that the production technology is of the Generalized Leontief type implies that the demand system can be estimated by analyzing cross-section differences in earnings across labor markets, by studying longitudinal changes in earnings within a labor market, or by investigating cross-section differences in labor force participation rates across labor markets. The estimation of these models on the 1970 and 1980 Public Use Samples from the U.S. Census reveals that the estimates of labor demand functions are indeed quite robust to major specification changes.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["In this paper we develop the implications of the property rights theory of the firm for wage determination and test the model using data from the U.S. nursing home industry. The main theoretical prediction is that any attenuation of property rights will lead to higher wage rates for the firm's employees. The empirical evidence indicates that, indeed, profit-maximizing nursing homes do pay the lowest wage rates (for given quality labor), and that the stronger the cost-minimizing incentives provided by Medicaid reimbursement programs, the lower the wage rate paid by these nursing homes."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper presents an empirical analysis of wage differentials based on race and gender in the federal bureaucracy. By focusing on the study of interagency variations in wage differentials, the author shows, first, that the use in earnings functions of a simple dummy variable to indicate race and gender leads to downward-biased estimates of the standardized wage differential. Second, across federal agencies there is a positive correlation between wage differentials based on race and those based on gender. Finally, the low relative wage of black females is more a result of their gender than of their race. This variety of empirical findings shows the promise of future studies that concentrate on the interfirm variance in employment policies that affect women and minorities. (Abstract courtesy JSTOR.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper presents an empirical analysis of earnings differentials among male Hispanic immigrants in the United States. The principal finding of the study is that there are major differences in the rate of economic mobility of the various Hispanic groups. In particular, the rate of economic progress by Cuban immigrants exceeds that of other Hispanic groups, the result in part of the fact that Cuban immigrants have invested more heavily in U.S. schooling than other Hispanic immigrants arriving in this country at the same time. The author concludes that these findings are consistent with the hypothesis that political refugees are likely to face higher costs of return immigration than do "economic" immigrants, and therefore the former have greater incentives to adapt rapidly to the U.S. labor market. (Abstract courtesy JSTOR.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Previous studies have shown that in the short run quits generally lead to wage increases on the next job and layoffs to no increase or to a wage cut. The author of this study argues, however, that the prospect of a job change for any reason creates a disincentive for a worker to invest in training that is specific to the current job, and therefore those who change jobs frequently may earn less over their life cycle than those who, other things equal, seldom change jobs. An analysis of data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Mature Men supports that expectation, showing that for white males job separations usually lead to wage gains in the short run but nonmobile workers tend to achieve significantly higher wages over the long run. (Abstract courtesy JSTOR.)'] ['During the last 25 years, annual hours worked by prime aged men fell by the equivalent of six 40-hour workweeks. The reduction was more pronounced among those younger than among mid-age workers, among black men than among white men, and among those with ...'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper provides a systematic empirical analysis of the effect of union membership on job satisfaction and wages, and shows how the interaction between these effects leads to empirically observable relations between unionization and individual quit probabilities. Using the National Longitudinal Survey of Mature Men, several empirical results were obtained. First, union members, on average, report lower levels of job satisfaction. Interestingly, unionization causes greater dissatisfaction at higher tenure levels. These findings are attributed to both the politicization of the unionized labor force and the fact that union members face flatter earnings profiles. The importance of the latter effect is reflected by the empirical fact that unions have a strong negative effect on quit probabilities at low levels of tenure, but the effect diminishes (absolutely) as tenure increases.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']