 ["Univariate dependencies in market volatility, both objective and risk neutral, are best described by long-memory fractionally integrated processes. Meanwhile, the ex post difference, or the variance swap payoff reflecting the reward for bearing volatility risk, displays far less persistent dynamics. Using intraday data for the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 and the volatility index (VIX), coupled with frequency domain methods, we separate the series into various components. We find that the coherence between volatility and the volatility-risk reward is the strongest at long-run frequencies. Our results are consistent with generalized long-run risk models and help explain why classical efforts of establishing a na\xc3\xafve return-volatility relation fail. We also estimate a fractionally cointegrated vector autoregression (CFVAR). The model-implied long-run equilibrium relation between the two variance variables results in nontrivial return predictability over interdaily and monthly horizons, supporting the idea that the cointegrating relation between the two variance measures proxies for the economic uncertainty rewarded by the market."] ['We provide a new framework for estimating the systematic and idiosyncratic jump tail risks in financial asset prices. Our estimates are based on in-fill asymptotics for directly identifying the jumps, together with Extreme Value Theory (EVT) approximations and methods-of-moments for assessing the tail decay parameters and tail dependencies. On implementing the procedures with a panel of intraday prices for a large cross-section of individual stocks and the S&amp;P; 500 market portfolio, we find that the distributions of the systematic and idiosyncratic jumps are both generally heavy-tailed and close to symmetric, and show how the jump tail dependencies deduced from the high-frequency data together with the day-to-day variation in the diffusive volatility account for the \xe2\x80\x9cextreme\xe2\x80\x9d joint dependencies observed at the daily level.'] [' Stock market volatility clusters in time, appears fractionally integrated, carries a risk premium, and exhibits asymmetric leverage effects. At the same time, the volatility risk premium, defined by the difference between the risk-neutral and objective expectations of the volatility, features short memory. This paper develops the first internally consistent equilibrium-based explanation for all these empirical facts. Using newly available high-frequency intraday data for the S&amp;P; 500 and the VIX volatility index, the authors show that the qualitative implications from the new theoretical continuous-time model match remarkably well with the distinct shapes and patterns in the sample autocorrelations and dynamic cross-correlations actually observed in the data. Copyright 2011, Oxford University Press.'] ["We extend the analytical results for reduced form realized volatility based forecasting in ABM (2004) to allow for market microstructure frictions in the observed high-frequency returns. Our results build on the eigenfunction representation of the general stochastic volatility class of models developed byMeddahi (2001). In addition to traditional realized volatility measures and the role of the underlying sampling frequencies, we also explore the forecasting performance of several alternative volatility measures designed to mitigate the impact of the microstructure noise. Our analysis is facilitated by a simple unified quadratic form representation for all these estimators. Our results suggest that the detrimental impact of the noise on forecast accuracy can be substantial. Moreover, the linear forecasts based on a simple-to-implement 'average' (or 'subsampled') estimator obtained by averaging standard sparsely sampled realized volatility measures generally perform on par with the best alternative robust measures."] ['Building on realized variance and bipower variation measures constructed from high-frequency financial prices, we propose a simple reduced form framework for effectively incorporating intraday data into the modeling of daily return volatility. We decompose the total daily return variability into the continuous sample path variance, the variation arising from discontinuous jumps that occur during the trading day, as well as the overnight return variance. Our empirical results, based on long samples of high-frequency equity and bond futures returns, suggest that the dynamic dependencies in the daily continuous sample path variability are well described by an approximate long-memory HAR-GARCH model, while the overnight returns may be modeled by an augmented GARCH type structure. The dynamic dependencies in the non-parametrically identified significant jumps appear to be well described by the combination of an ACH model for the time-varying jump intensities coupled with a relatively simple log-linear structure for the jump sizes. Finally, we discuss how the resulting reduced form model structure for each of the three components may be used in the construction of out-of-sample forecasts for the total return volatility.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We show that the compensation for rare events accounts for a large fraction of the average equity and variance risk premia. Exploiting the special structure of the jump tails and the pricing thereof we identify and estimate a new Investor Fears index. The index suggests both large and time-varying compensations for fears of disasters. Our empirical investigations are essentially model-free, involving new extreme value theory approximations and high-frequency intraday data for estimating the expected jump tails under the statistical probability measure, and short maturity out-of-the money options and new model-free implied variation measures for estimating the corresponding risk neutral expectations.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['We propose a new and flexible non-parametric framework for estimating the jump tails of It\xc3\xb4 semimartingale processes. The approach is based on a relatively simple-to-implement set of estimating equations associated with the compensator for the jump measure, or its "intensity", that only utilizes the weak assumption of regular variation in the jump tails, along with in-fill asymptotic arguments for uniquely identifying the "large" jumps from the data. The estimation allows for very general dynamic dependencies in the jump tails, and does not restrict the continuous part of the process and the temporal variation in the stochastic volatility. On implementing the new estimation procedure with actual high-frequency data for the S&amp;P; 500 aggregate market portfolio, we find strong evidence for richer and more complex dynamic dependencies in the jump tails than hitherto entertained in the literature.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' We provide an empirical framework for assessing the distributional properties of daily speculative returns within the context of the continuous-time jump diffusion models traditionally used in asset pricing finance. Our approach builds directly on recently developed realized variation measures and non-parametric jump detection statistics constructed from high-frequency intra-day data. A sequence of simple-to-implement moment-based tests involving various transformations of the daily returns speak directly to the importance of different distributional features, and may serve as useful diagnostic tools in the specification of empirically more realistic continuous-time asset pricing models. On applying the tests to the 30 individual stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average index, we find that it is important to allow for both time-varying diffusive volatility, jumps, and leverage effects to satisfactorily describe the daily stock price dynamics. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2009 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] ['We provide a new theoretical framework for disentangling and estimating the sensitivity towards systematic diffusive and jump risks in the context of factor models. Our estimates of the sensitivities towards systematic risks, or betas, are based on the notion of increasingly finer sampled returns over fixed time intervals. We show consistency and derive the asymptotic distributions of our estimators. In an empirical application of the new procedures involving high-frequency data for forty individual stocks, we find that the estimated monthly diffusive and jump betas with respect to an aggregate market portfolio differ substantially for some of the stocks in the sample.'] ['We develop an empirically highly accurate discrete-time daily stochastic volatility model that explicitly distinguishes between the jump and continuous-time components of price movements using nonparametric realized variation and Bipower variation measures constructed from high-frequency intraday data. The model setup allows us to directly assess the structural inter-dependencies among the shocks to returns and the two different volatility components. The model estimates suggest that the leverage effect, or asymmetry between returns and volatility, works primarily through the continuous volatility component. The excellent fit of the model makes it an ideal candidate for an easy-to-implement auxiliary model in the context of indirect estimation of empirically more realistic continuous-time jump diffusion and L\xc3\xa9vy-driven stochastic volatility models, effectively incorporating the interdaily dependencies inherent in the high-frequency intraday data.'] [' Motivated by the implications from a stylized self-contained general equilibrium model incorporating the effects of time-varying economic uncertainty, we show that the difference between implied and realized variation, or the variance risk premium, is able to explain a nontrivial fraction of the time-series variation in post-1990 aggregate stock market returns, with high (low) premia predicting high (low) future returns. Our empirical results depend crucially on the use of "model-free," as opposed to Black--Scholes, options implied volatilities, along with accurate realized variation measures constructed from high-frequency intraday as opposed to daily data. The magnitude of the predictability is particularly strong at the intermediate quarterly return horizon, where it dominates that afforded by other popular predictor variables, such as the P/E ratio, the default spread, and the consumption--wealth ratio. The Author 2009. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Society for Financial Studies. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org., Oxford University Press.'] ['We test for price discontinuities, or jumps, in a panel of high-frequency intraday stock returns and an equiweighted index constructed from the same stocks. Using a new test for common jumps that explicitly utilizes the cross-covariance structure in the returns to identify non-diversifiable jumps, we find strong evidence for many modest-sized, yet highly significant, cojumps that simply pass through standard jump detection statistics when applied on a stock-by-stock basis. Our results are further corroborated by a striking within-day pattern in the significant cojumps, with a sharp peak at the time of regularly scheduled macroeconomic news announcements.'] ['We develop a sequential procedure to test the adequacy of jump-diffusion models for return distributions. We rely on intraday data and nonparametric volatility measures, along with a new jump detection technique and appropriate conditional moment tests, for assessing the import of jumps and leverage effects. A novel robust-to-jumps approach is utilized to alleviate microstructure frictions for realized volatility estimation. Size and power of the procedure are explored through Monte Carlo methods. Our empirical findings support the jump-diffusive representation for S&amp;P500; futures returns but reveal it is critical to account for leverage effects and jumps to maintain the underlying semi-martingale assumption.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' A growing literature documents important gains in asset return volatility forecasting via use of realized variation measures constructed from high-frequency returns. We progress by using newly developed bipower variation measures and corresponding nonparametric tests for jumps. Our empirical analyses of exchange rates, equity index returns, and bond yields suggest that the volatility jump component is both highly important and distinctly less persistent than the continuous component, and that separating the rough jump moves from the smooth continuous moves results in significant out-of-sample volatility forecast improvements. Moreover, many of the significant jumps are associated with specific macroeconomic news announcements. Copyright by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [' "This paper analyses the effect of an increase in market-wide uncertainty on information flow and asset price comovements. We use the daily realised volatility of the 30-year treasury bond futures to assess macroeconomic shocks that affect market-wide uncertainty. We use the ratio of a stock\'s idiosyncratic realised volatility with respect to the S&amp;P500; futures relative to its total realised volatility to capture the asset price comovement with the market. We find that market volatility and the comovement of individual stocks with the market increase contemporaneously with the arrival of market-wide macroeconomic shocks, but decrease significantly in the following five trading days. This pattern supports the hypothesis that investors shift their (limited) attention to processing market-level information following an increase in market-wide uncertainty and then subsequently divert their attention back to asset-specific information". Copyright 2007 The Authors Journal compilation (c) 2007 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] ['Using a unique high-frequency futures dataset, we characterize the response of U.S., German and British stock, bond and foreign exchange markets to real-time U.S. macroeconomic news. We find that news produces conditional mean jumps; hence high-frequency stock, bond and exchange rate dynamics are linked to fundamentals. Equity markets, moreover, react differently to news depending on the stage of the business cycle, which explains the low correlation between stock and bond returns when averaged over the cycle. Hence our results qualify earlier work suggesting that bond markets react most strongly to macroeconomic news; in particular, when conditioning on the state of the economy, the equity and foreign exchange markets appear equally responsive. Finally, we also document important contemporaneous links across all markets and countries, even after controlling for the effects of macroeconomic news.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' We examine the relationship between volatility and past and future returns using high-frequency aggregate equity index data. Consistent with a prolonged "leverage" effect, we find the correlations between absolute high-frequency returns and current and past high-frequency returns to be significantly negative for several days, whereas the reverse cross-correlations are generally negligible. We also find that high-frequency data may be used in more accurately assessing volatility asymmetries over longer daily return horizons. Furthermore, our analysis of several popular continuous-time stochastic volatility models clearly points to the importance of allowing for multiple latent volatility factors for satisfactorily describing the observed volatility asymmetries. Copyright 2006, Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We develop general model-free adjustment procedures for the calculation of unbiased volatility loss functions based on practically feasible realized volatility benchmarks. The procedures, which exploit recent nonparametric asymptotic distributional results, are both easy-to-implement and highly accurate in empirically realistic situations. We also illustrate that properly accounting for the measurement errors in the volatility forecast evaluations reported in the existing literature can result in markedly higher estimates for the true degree of return volatility predictability. Copyright The Econometric Society 2005.'] ['We selectively survey, unify and extend the literature on realized volatility of financial asset returns. Rather than focusing exclusively on characterizing the properties of realized volatility, we progress by examining economically interesting functions of realized volatility, namely realized betas for equity portfolios, relating them both to their underlying realized variance and covariance parts and to underlying macroeconomic fundamentals.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper proposes a method for constructing a volatility risk premium, or investor risk aversion, index. The method is intuitive and simple to implement, relying on the sample moments of the recently popularized model-free realized and option-implied volatility measures. A small-scale Monte Carlo experiment confirms that the procedure works well in practice. Implementing the procedure with actual S&amp;P500; option-implied volatilities and high-frequency five-minute-based realized volatilities indicates significant temporal dependencies in the estimated stochastic volatility risk premium, which we in turn relate to a set of macro-finance state variables. We also find that the extracted volatility risk premium helps predict future stock market returns.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Estimation and forecasting for realistic continuous-time stochastic volatility models is hampered by the lack of closed-form expressions for the likelihood. In response, Andersen, Bollerslev, Diebold, and Labys ("Econometrica", 71 (2003), 579-625) advocate forecasting integrated volatility via reduced-form models for the realized volatility, constructed by summing high-frequency squared returns. Building on the eigenfunction stochastic volatility models, we present analytical expressions for the forecast efficiency associated with this reduced-form approach as a function of sampling frequency. For popular models like GARCH, multifactor affine, and lognormal diffusions, the reduced form procedures perform remarkably well relative to the optimal (infeasible) forecasts. Copyright 2004 by the Economics Department Of The University Of Pennsylvania And Osaka University Institute Of Social And Economic Research Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Using a new data set consisting of six years of real-time exchange-rate quotations, macroeconomic expectations, and macroeconomic realizations, we characterize the conditional means of U.S. dollar spot exchange rates. In particular, we find that announcement surprises produce conditional mean jumps; hence high-frequency exchange-rate dynamics are linked to fundamentals. The details of the linkage are intriguing and include announcement timing and sign effects. The sign effect refers to the fact that the market reacts to news in an asymmetric fashion: bad news has greater impact than good news, which we relate to recent theoretical work on information processing and price discovery.'] [' We provide a framework for integration of high--frequency intraday data into the measurement, modeling, and forecasting of daily and lower frequency return volatilities and return distributions. Building on the theory of continuous--time arbitrage--free price processes and the theory of quadratic variation, we develop formal links between realized volatility and the conditional covariance matrix. Next, using continuously recorded observations for the Deutschemark&amp;sol;Dollar and Yen&amp;sol;Dollar spot exchange rates, we find that forecasts from a simple long--memory Gaussian vector autoregression for the logarithmic daily realized volatilities perform admirably. Moreover, the vector autoregressive volatility forecast, coupled with a parametric lognormal--normal mixture distribution produces well--calibrated density forecasts of future returns, and correspondingly accurate quantile predictions. Our results hold promise for practical modeling and forecasting of the large covariance matrices relevant in asset pricing, asset allocation, and financial risk management applications. Copyright The Econometric Society 2003.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We exploit the distributional information contained in high-frequency intraday data in constructing a simple conditional moment estimator for stochastic volatility diffusions. The estimator is based on the analytical solutions of the first two conditional moments for the latent integrated volatility, the realization of which is effectively approximated by the sum of the squared high-frequency increments of the process. Our simulation evidence indicates that the resulting GMM estimator is highly reliable and accurate. Our empirical implementation based on high-frequency five-minute foreign exchange returns suggests the presence of multiple latent stochastic volatility factors and possible jumps.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper bridges the gap between traditional ARCH modelling and recent advances on realized volatilities. Based on a ten-year sample of five-minute returns for the ECU basket currencies versus the US dollar, we find that the realized volatilities constructed from the summation of the high-frequency intraday squared returns conditional on the lagged squared daily returns are approximately Inverse Gaussian (IG) distributed, while the distribution of the daily returns standardized by their realized volatilities is approximately normal. Moreover, the implied daily GARCH model with Normal Inverse Gaussian (NIG) errors estimated for the ECU returns results in very accurate out-of-sample predictions for the three years of actual daily Euro|US dollar exchange rates. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2002 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] [' Formal testing procedures confirm the presence of a unit root in the autoregressive polynomial of the univariate time series representation of daily exchange-rate data. The first differences of the logarithms of daily spot rates are approximately uncorrelated through time, and a generalized autoregressive conditional heteroscedasticity model with daily dummy variables and conditionally t-distributed errors is found to provide a good representation to the leptokurtosis and time-dependent conditional heteroscedasticity. The parameter estimates and characteristics of the models are found to be very similar for six different currencies. These apparent stylized facts carry over to weekly, fortnightly, and monthly data in which the degree of leptokurtosis and time-dependent heteroscedasticity is reduced as the length of the sampling interval increases.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Although it is clear that the volatility of asset returns is serially correlated, there is no general agreement as to the most appropriate parametric model for characterizing this temporal dependence. In this paper, we propose a simple way of modeling financial market volatility using high-frequency data. The method avoids using a tight parametric model by instead simply fitting a long autoregression to log-squared, squared, or absolute high-frequency returns. This can either be estimated by the usual time domain method, or alternatively the autoregressive coefficients can be backed out from the smoothed periodogram estimate of the spectrum of log-squared, squared, or absolute returns. We show how this approach can be used to construct volatility forecasts, which compare favorably with some leading alternatives in an out-of-sample forecasting exercise. \xc2\xa9 2001 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This article examines the behavior of equity trading volume and volatility for the individual firms composing the Standard &amp; Poor's 100 composite index. Using multivariate spectral methods, the authors find that fractionally integrated processes best describe the long-run temporal dependencies in both series. Consistent with a stylized mixture-of-distributions hypothesis model in which the aggregate 'news'-arrival process possesses long-memory characteristics, the long-run hyperbolic decay rates appear to be common across each volume-volatility pair."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' A voluminous literature has emerged for modeling the temporal dependencies in financial market volatility using ARCH and stochastic volatility models. While most of these studies have documented highly significant in-sample parameter estimates and pronounced intertemporal volatility persistence, traditional ex post forecast evaluation criteria suggest that the models provide seemingly poor volatility forecasts. Contrary to this contention, the authors show that volatility models produce strikingly accurate interdaily forecasts for the latent volatility factor that would be of interest in most financial applications. New methods for improved ex post interdaily volatility measurements based on high-frequency intradaily data are also discussed. Copyright 1998 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] [' This paper provides a detailed characterization of the volatility in the deutsche mark-dollar foreign exchange market using an annual sample of five-minute returns. The approach captures the intraday activity patterns, the macroeconomic announcements, and the volatility persistence (ARCH) known from daily returns. The different features are separately quantified and shown to account for a substantial fraction of return variability, both at the intraday and daily level. The implications of the results for the interpretation of the fundamental "driving forces" behind the volatility process is also discussed. Copyright The American Finance Association 1998.'] [" Recent empirical evidence suggests that the interdaily volatility clustering for most speculative returns are best characterized by a slowly mean-reverting fractionally integrated process. Meanwhile, much shorter lived volatility dynamics are typically observed with high frequency intradaily returns. The present article demonstrates that, by interpreting the volatility as a mixture of numerous heterogeneous short-run information arrivals, the observed volatility process may exhibit long-run dependence. As such, the long-memory characteristics constitute an intrinsic feature of the return generating process, rather than the manifestation of occasional structural shifts. These ideas are confirmed by the authors' analysis of a one-year time series of five-minute Deutschemark-U.S. dollar exchange rates. Copyright 1997 by American Finance Association."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Most high frequency asset returns exhibit seasonal volatility patterns. This paper proposes a new class of periodic ARCH, or P-ARCH, models explicitly designed to capture the repetitive variation in the second order moments. The importance of the informational loss associated with the implicit relation between P-GARCH structures and the corresponding time-invariant seasonal weak GARCH processes are quantified through the use of Monte Carlo simulation methods. Two empirical examples with daily bilateral deutschemark-British pound and intraday deutschemark-U.S. dollar spot exchange rates highlight the practical relevance of the new P-GARCH class of models.'] [' Replication of Baillie, Bollerslev and Mikkelson(1996), "Fractionally Integrated Generalized Autoregressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity", Journal of Econometrics, vol 74, pp 3-30.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Replication file for Bollerslev and Mikkelson(1996), "Modeling and pricing long memory in stock market volatility", Journal of Econometrics, vol 73, pp 151-184. This estimates FIGARCH and FIEGARCH models (fractionally integrated GARCH and fractionally integrated EGARCH)<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Multivariate tests due to Soren Johansen, as implemented by Richard T. Baillie and Tim Bollerslev (1989) and Francis X. Diebold, Javier Gardeazabal, and Kamil Yilmaz (1994), reveal mixed evidence on whether a group of exchange rates are cointegrated. Further analysis of the deviations from the cointegrating relationship suggests that it possesses long memory and may possibly be well described as a fractionally integrated process. Hence, the influence of shocks to the equilibrium exchange rates may only vanish at very long horizons. Copyright 1994 by American Finance Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The behavior of quote arrivals and bid-ask spreads is examined for continuously recorded deutsche mark-dollar exchange rate data over time, across locations, and by market participants. A pattern in the intraday spread and intensity of market activity over time is uncovered and related to theories of trading patterns. Models for the conditional mean and variance of returns and bid-ask spreads indicate volatility clustering at high frequencies. The proposition that trading intensity has an independent effect on returns volatility is rejected but holds for spread volatility. Conditional returns volatility is increasing in the size of the spread. Copyright 1993 by American Finance Association.'] [' A common finding in many of the recent empirical studies with the ARCH class of models applied to high frequency financial data concerns the apparent persistence of shocks for forecast of the future conditional variances. It is likely that several different variables share this same implied long-run component, however. In that situation, the variables are defined to be copersistent in variance. Conditions for copersistence to occur in the linear multivariate GARCH model are presented. These conditions parallel the conditions for linear cointegration in the mean. A simple empirical example with foreign exchange rate data illustrates the ideas. Copyright 1993 by The Econometric Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Four foreign exchange spot rate series, recorded on an hourly basis for a six-month period in 1986, are examined. A seasonal GARCH model is developed to describe the time-dependent volatility apparent in the percentage nominal return of each currency. Hourly patterns in volatility are found to be remarkably similar across currencies and appear to be related to the opening and closing of the worlds' major markets. Robust LM tests, designed to deal with the extreme leptokurtosis in the data, fail to uncover any evidence of misspecification or the presence of volatility spillover effects between the currencies or across markets. Copyright 1991 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited."] ['Although volatility clustering has a long history as a salient empirical regularity characterizing high frequency speculative prices, it was not until recently that applied researchers in finance have recognized the importance of explicitly modeling time varying second order moments. Instrumental in most of these empirical studies has been the Autoregressive Conditionnal Heteroskedasticity (ARCH) model introduced by Engle (1982). This paper contains an overview of some of the developments in the formulations of ARCH models and a survey of numerous empirical applications using financial data. Several suggestions for future research, including the implementation and tests of competing asset pricing theories, market microstructure models, information transmission mechanisms, dynamic hedging strategies and the pricing of derivative assets, are also discussed.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' A multivariate time series model with time varying conditional variances and covariances, but constant conditional correlations is proposed. In a multivariate regression framework, the model is readily interpreted as an extension of the Seemingly Unrelated Regression (SUR) model allowing for heteroskedasticity. Parameterizing each of the conditional variances as a univariate Generalized Autoregressive Conditional Heteroskedastic (GARCH) process, the descriptive validity of the model is illustrated for a set of five nominal European U.S. dollar exchange rates following the inception of the European Monetary System (EMS). When compared to the pre- EMS free float period, the comovements between the currenciess are found to be significantly higher over the later period. Copyright 1990 by MIT Press.'] [' Univariate tests reveal strong evidence for the presence of a unit root in the univariate time series representation for seven daily spot and forward exchange rate series. Furthermore, all seven spot and forward rates appear to be cointegrated, that is, the forward premiums are stationary and one common unit root, or stochastic trend, is detectable in the multivariate time series models for the seven spot and forward rates, respectively. This is consistent with the hypothesis of the seven exchange rates possessing one long-run relationship, and the disequilibrium error around that relationship, partly accounting for subsequent movements in the exchange rates. Copyright 1989 by American Finance Association.'] [' The capital asset pricing model provides a theoretical structure for the pricing of assets with uncertain returns. The premium to induc e risk-averse investors to bear risk is proportional to the nondivers ifiable risk, which is measured by the covariance of the asset return with the market portfolio return. In this paper, a multivariate, gen eralized-autoregressive, conditional, heteroscedastic process is esti mated for returns to bills, bonds, and stocks where the expected retu rn is proportional to the conditional covariance of each return with that of a fully diversified or market portfolio. It is found that the conditional covariances are quite variable over time and are a signi ficant determinant of the time-varying risk premia. The implied betas are also time varying and forecastable. Copyright 1988 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The present paper proposes a generalization of the canonical AutoRegressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity (ARCH) model by extending the conditional variance equation toward past conditional variances. The stationarity conditions and autocorrelation structure of the Generalized AutoRegressive Conditional Heteroskedastic (GARCH) model are derived. Using an empirical example of uncertainty of the inflation rate the paper demonstrates that the GARCH model provides a better fit and a more plausible learning mechanism than the ARCH model.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']