 [" The Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for 2013 was awarded to Eugene Fama, Lars Peter Hansen, and Robert Shiller for their contributions to the empirical study of asset pricing. Some observers have found it hard to understand the common elements of the laureates' research, preferring to highlight areas of disagreement among them. In this paper, I argue that empirical asset pricing is a coherent enterprise, which owes much to the laureates' influential contributions, and that important themes in the literature can best be understood by considering the laureates in pairs. Specifically, after summarizing modern asset-pricing theory using the stochastic discount factor as an organizing framework, I discuss the following: the joint hypothesis problem in tests of market efficiency, which is as much an opportunity as a problem (Fama and Hansen); patterns of short- and long-term predictability in asset returns (Fama and Shiller); and models of deviations from rational expectations (Hansen and Shiller). I conclude by reviewing the ways in which the laureates have already influenced the practice of finance, and how they might influence future innovations."] [' This article explores the causes and consequences of cross-country variation in mortgage market structure. It draws on insights from several fields: urban economics, asset pricing, behavioral finance, financial intermediation, and macroeconomics. It discusses lessons from the credit boom, the challenges of mortgage modification in the aftermath of the boom, consumer financial protection, and alternative mortgage forms and funding models. The article argues that the USA has much to learn from mortgage finance in other countries, and specifically from the Danish implementation of the European covered bonds system. Copyright 2013, Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["The long-run risks model of asset prices explains stock price variation as a response to persistent fluctuations in the mean and volatility of aggregate consumption growth, by a representative agent with a high elasticity of intertemporal substitution. This paper documents several empirical difficulties for the model, as calibrated by Bansal and Yaron (BY, 2004) and Bansal et al. (BKY, 2011). U.S. data do not show as much univariate persistence in consumption or dividend growth as implied by the model. BY's calibration counterfactually implies that long-run consumption and dividend growth should be highly predictable from stock prices. BKY's calibration does better in this respect by greatly increasing the persistence of volatility fluctuations and their impact on stock prices. This calibration fits the predictive power of stock prices for future consumption volatility, but implies much greater predictive power of stock prices for future stock return volatility than is found in the data. The long-run risks model, particularly as calibrated by BKY, implies extremely low yields and negative term premia on inflation-indexed bonds. Finally, neither calibration can explain why movements in real interest rates do not generate strong predictable movements in consumption growth."] ['The recent financial crisis has led many to question how well businesses deliver services and how well regulatory institutions address problems in consumer financial markets. This paper discusses consumer financial regulation, emphasizing the full range of arguments for regulation that derive from market failure and from limited consumer rationality in financial decision making. We present three case studies\xe2\x80\x94of mortgage markets, payday lending, and financing retirement consumption\xe2\x80\x94to illustrate the need for, and limits of, regulation. We argue that if regulation is to be beneficial, it must be tailored to specific problems and must be accompanied by research to measure the effectiveness of regulatory interventions.'] [' This paper uses data on all house transactions in Massachusetts over the last 20 years to show that houses sold after foreclosure, or close in time to the death or bankruptcy of a seller, are sold at lower prices than other houses. Foreclosure discounts are on average at 27 percent of the value of a house. Moreover, foreclosures that take place within small local geographies of a house lower the price at which it is sold. Our preferred estimate is that a foreclosure at a distance of 0.05 miles lowers the price of a house by about 1 percent.'] [' Over the period 1975 to 2005, the U.S. dollar (particularly in relation to the Canadian dollar), the euro, and the Swiss franc (particularly in the second half of the period) moved against world equity markets. Thus, these currencies should be attractive to risk-minimizing global equity investors despite their low average returns. The risk-minimizing currency strategy for a global bond investor is close to a full currency hedge, with a modest long position in the U.S. dollar. There is little evidence that risk-minimizing investors should adjust their currency positions in response to movements in interest differentials. Copyright (c) 2009 the American Finance Association.'] [' The cash flows of growth stocks are particularly sensitive to temporary movements in aggregate stock prices, driven by shocks to market discount rates, while the cash flows of value stocks are particularly sensitive to permanent movements, driven by shocks to aggregate cash flows. Thus, the high betas of growth (value) stocks with the market\'s discount-rate (cash-flow) shocks are determined by the cash-flow fundamentals of growth and value companies. Growth stocks are not merely "glamour stocks" whose systematic risks are purely driven by investor sentiment. More generally, the systematic risks of individual stocks with similar accounting characteristics are primarily driven by the systematic risks of their fundamentals. The Author 2009. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Society for Financial Studies. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org, Oxford University Press.'] [' In these excerpts from "The Squam Lake Report", fifteen distinguished economists analyze where the global financial system failed, and how such failures might be prevented (or at least their damage better contained) in the future. Although there were many contributing factors to the crisis-including "agency" problems throughout the financial system and a bankruptcy code poorly suited for reorganizing financial firms-at the core of the problem is a potential conflict between the risk-taking proclivity of financial institutions and the interests of the economy at large that must be managed at least in part through more effective regulation. "The Squam Lake Report" provides a nonpartisan plan to transform the regulation of financial markets in ways designed to limit systemic risk while preserving-to the extent possible and prudent-the economies of scale and scope that justify the existence of today\'s large financial institutions. Copyright Copyright (c) 2010 Morgan Stanley.'] [' This paper investigates the dynamics of individual portfolios in a unique data set containing the disaggregated wealth of all households in Sweden. Between 1999 and 2002, we observe little aggregate rebalancing in the financial portfolio of participants. These patterns conceal strong household-level evidence of active rebalancing, which on average offsets about one-half of idiosyncratic passive variations in the risky asset share. Wealthy, educated investors with better diversified portfolios tend to rebalance more actively. We find some evidence that households rebalance toward a greater risky share as they become richer. We also study the decisions to trade individual assets. Households are more likely to fully sell directly held stocks if those stocks have performed well, and more likely to exit direct stockholding if their stock portfolios have performed well; but these relationships are much weaker for mutual funds, a pattern that is consistent with previous research on the disposition effect among direct stockholders and performance sensitivity among mutual fund investors. When households continue to hold individual assets, however, they rebalance both stocks and mutual funds to offset about one-sixth of the passive variations in individual asset shares. Households rebalance primarily by adjusting purchases of risky assets if their risky portfolios have performed poorly, and by adjusting both fund purchases and full sales of stocks if their risky portfolios have performed well. Finally, the tendency for households to fully sell winning stocks is weaker for wealthy investors with diversified portfolios of individual stocks. (c) 2009 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology..'] ["This paper explores the history of inflation-indexed bond markets in the US and the UK. It documents a massive decline in long-term real interest rates from the 1990's until 2008, followed by a sudden spike in these rates during the financial crisis of 2008. Breakeven inflation rates, calculated from inflation- indexed and nominal government bond yields, stabilized until the fall of 2008, when they showed dramatic declines. The paper asks to what extent short-term real interest rates, bond risks, and liquidity explain the trends before 2008 and the unusual developments in the fall of 2008. Low inflation-indexed yields and high short-term volatility of inflation-indexed bond returns do not invalidate the basic case for these bonds, that they provide a safe asset for long-term investors. Governments should expect inflation-indexed bonds to be a relatively cheap form of debt financing going forward, even though they have offered high returns over the past decade.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['This paper constructs an index of financial sophistication that, in comprehensive data on Swedish households, best explains a set of three investment mistakes: underdiversification, risky share inertia, and the tendency to sell winning stocks and hold losing stocks (the disposition effect). The index of financial sophistication increases strongly with financial wealth and household size, and to a lesser extent with education and proxies for financial experience. The index is strongly positively correlated with the share of risky assets held by a household.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Many questions about institutional trading can only be answered if one tracks high-frequency changes in institutional ownership. In the United States, however, institutions are only required to report their ownership quarterly in 13-F filings. We infer daily institutional trading behavior from the "tape", the Transactions and Quotes database of the New York Stock Exchange, using a sophisticated method that best predicts quarterly 13-F data from trades of different sizes. We find that daily institutional trades are highly persistent and respond positively to recent daily returns but negatively to longer-term past daily returns. Institutional trades, particularly sells, appear to generate short-term losses--possibly reflecting institutional demand for liquidity--but longer-term profits. One source of these profits is that institutions anticipate both earnings surprises and post-earnings announcement drift. These results are different from those obtained using a standard size cutoff rule for institutional trades.'] [' This paper explores the determinants of corporate failure and the pricing of financially distressed stocks whose failure probability, estimated from a dynamic logit model using accounting and market variables, is high. Since 1981, financially distressed stocks have delivered anomalously low returns. They have lower returns but much higher standard deviations, market betas, and loadings on value and small-cap risk factors than stocks with low failure risk. These patterns are more pronounced for stocks with possible informational or arbitrage-related frictions. They are inconsistent with the conjecture that the value and size effects are compensation for the risk of financial distress. Copyright (c) 2008 The American Finance Association.'] ['Finance theory restricts the time-series behaviour of valuation ratios and links the cross-section of stock prices to the level of the equity premium. This can be used to strengthen the evidence for predictability in stock returns. Steady-state valuation models are useful predictors of stock returns, given the persistence in valuation ratios. A steady-state approach suggests that the world geometric average equity premium fell considerably in the late twentieth century, rose modestly in the early years of the twenty-first century, and was almost 4% at the end of March 2007.'] [' Goyal and Welch (2007) argue that the historical average excess stock return forecasts future excess stock returns better than regressions of excess returns on predictor variables. In this article, we show that many predictive regressions beat the historical average return, once weak restrictions are imposed on the signs of coefficients and return forecasts. The out-of-sample explanatory power is small, but nonetheless is economically meaningful for mean-variance investors. Even better results can be obtained by imposing the restrictions of steady-state valuation models, thereby removing the need to estimate the average from a short sample of volatile stock returns. The Author 2007. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Society for Financial Studies. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org, Oxford University Press.'] [" Housing wealth is a major component of households' wealth. Since house prices fluctuate considerably over time, an important question is how house price fluctuations affect households' consumption decisions. This may happen through at least two channels: (i) a wealth channel, or (ii) by relaxing or making borrowing constraints more severe. This paper investigates the response of household consumption to house prices using micro level data. We estimate a positive wealth effect on consumption of house price shocks for older households who are homewoners, and a negative wealth effect for young households who are renters. These are the households that are more likely to be long and short housing, respectively. We also find that consumption responds to predictable changes in house prices, an effect which is consistent with an increase in house prices relaxing borrowing constraints.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['In the presence of overlapping generations, markets are incomplete because it is impossible to engage in risksharing trades with the unborn. In such an environment the government can use a social security system, with contingent taxes and benefits, to improve risksharing across generations. An interesting question is how the form of the social security system affects asset prices in equilibrium. In this paper we set up a simple model with two risky factors of production: human capital, owned by the young, and physical capital, owned by all older generations. We show that a social security system that optimally shares risks across generations exposes future generations to a share of the risk in physical capital returns. Such a system reduces precautionary saving and increases the risk-bearing capacity of the economy. Under plausible conditions it increases the riskless interest rate, lowers the price of physical capital, and reduces the risk premium on physical capital.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper investigates the efficiency of household investment decisions using comprehensive disaggregated Swedish data. We consider two main sources of inefficiency: underdiversification ("down") and nonparticipation in risky asset markets ("out"). While a few households are very poorly diversified, most Swedish households outperform the Sharpe ratio of their domestic stock index through international diversification. Financially sophisticated households invest more efficiently but also more aggressively, and overall they incur higher return losses from underdiversification. The return cost of nonparticipation is smaller by almost one-half when we take account of the fact that nonparticipants would likely be inefficient investors. (c) 2007 by The University of Chicago. All rights reserved..'] [' The study of household finance is challenging because household behavior is difficult to measure, and households face constraints not captured by textbook models. Evidence on participation, diversification, and mortgage refinancing suggests that many households invest effectively, but a minority make significant mistakes. This minority appears to be poorer and less well educated than the majority of more successful investors. There is some evidence that households understand their own limitations and avoid financial strategies for which they feel unqualified. Some financial products involve a cross-subsidy from naive to sophisticated households, and this can inhibit welfare-improving financial innovation. Copyright 2006 by The American Finance Association.'] ['Conventional tests of the predictability of stock returns could be invalid, that is reject the null too frequently, when the predictor variable is persistent and its innovations are highly correlated with returns. We develop a pretest to determine whether the conventional t-test leads to invalid inference and an efficient test of predictability that corrects this problem. Although the conventional t-test is invalid for the dividend\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x80\x9cprice and smoothed earnings\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x80\x9cprice ratios, our test finds evidence for predictability. We also find evidence for predictability with the short rate and the long-short yield spread, for which the conventional t-test leads to valid inference.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["We empirically decompose the S&amp;P; 500's dividend yield into (1) a rational forecast of long-run real dividend growth, (2) the subjectively expected risk premium, and (3) residual mispricing attributed to the market's forecast of dividend growth deviating from the rational forecast. Modigliani and Cohn's (1979) hypothesis and the persistent use of the Fed model' by Wall Street suggest that the stock market incorrectly extrapolates past nominal growth rates without taking into account the impact of time-varying inflation. Consistent with the Modigliani-Cohn hypothesis, we find that the level of inflation explains almost 80% of the time-series variation in stock-market mispricing.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper derives an approximate solution to a continuous-time intertemporal portfolio and consumption choice problem. The problem is the continuous-time equivalent of the discrete-time problem studied by Campbell and Viceira (Q. J. Econ. 114 (1999) 433) in which the expected excess return on a risky asset follows an AR(1) process, while the riskless interest rate is constant. The paper also shows how to obtain continuous-time parameters that are consistent with discrete-time econometric estimates. The continuous-time solution is the limit of that of Campbell and Viceira and has the property that conservative long-term investors have a large positive intertemporal hedging demand for stocks.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper explains the size and value "anomalies" in stock returns using an economically motivated two-beta model. We break the beta of a stock with the market portfolio into two components, one reflecting news about the market\'s future cash flows and one reflecting news about the market\'s discount rates. Intertemporal asset pricing theory suggests that the former should have a higher price of risk; thus beta, like cholesterol, comes in "bad" and "good" varieties. Empirically, we find that value stocks and small stocks have considerably higher cash-flow betas than growth stocks and large stocks, and this can explain their higher average returns. The poor performance of the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) since 1963 is explained by the fact that growth stocks and high-past-beta stocks have predominantly good betas with low risk prices.'] ['Much recent work has documented evidence for predictability of asset returns. We show how such predictability can affect the portfolio choices of long-lived investors who value wealth not for its own sake but for the consumption their wealth can support. We develop an approximate solution method for the optimal consumption and portfolio choice problem of an infinitely-lived investor with Epstein-Zin utility who faces a set of asset returns described by a vector autoregression in returns and state variables. Empirical estimates in long-run annual and postwar quarterly US data suggest that the predictability of stock returns greatly increases the optimal demand for stocks. The role of nominal bonds in long-term portfolios depends on the importance of real interest rate risk relative to other sources of risk. We extend the analysis to consider long-term inflation-indexed bonds and find that these bonds greatly increase the utility of conservative investors, who should hold large positions when they are available.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper asks how a household should choose between a fixed-rate (FRM) and an adjustable-rate (ARM) mortgage. In an environment with uncertain inflation a nominal FRM has a risky real capital value, whereas an ARM has a stable real capital value but short-term variability in required real payments. Numerical solution of a life-cycle model with borrowing constraints and income risk shows that an ARM is generally attractive, but less so for a risk-averse household with a large mortgage, risky income, high default cost, or low moving probability. An inflation-indexed FRM can improve substantially on standard nominal mortgages. \xc2\xa9 2001 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] [' Conventional wisdom holds that conservative investors should avoid exposure to foreign currency risk. Even if they hold foreign equities, they should hedge the currency exposure of these positions and hold only domestic Treasury bills. This paper argues that the conventional wisdom may be wrong for long-term investors. Domestic bills are risky for long-term investors, because real interest rates vary over time and bills must be rolled over at uncertain future interest rates. This risk can be hedged by holding foreign currency if the domestic currency tends to depreciate when the domestic real interest rate falls. Empirically this effect is important. Copyright Royal Economic Society 2003'] [' This paper explores the effect of equity volatility on corporate bond yields. Panel data for the late 1990s show that idiosyncratic firm-level volatility can explain as much cross-sectional variation in yields as can credit ratings. This finding, together with the upward trend in idiosyncratic equity volatility documented by Campbell, Lettau, Malkiel, and Xu (2001) , helps to explain recent increases in corporate bond yields. Copyright 2003 by the American Finance Association.'] [' This paper constructs a simple model of home production that demonstrates the connection between the intertemporal elasticity of substitution in market consumption (IES) and the static elasticity of substitution between home and market consumption (SES). Understanding this connection is important because there is a large body of empirical evidence suggesting that the IES is small, but little evidence on the size of the SES. We use our framework to shed light on the properties of a home production model with a low IES. We find that such a model must have three fundamental properties in order to match key aspects of aggregate U.S. data. First, the steady-state growth rate of technology must be the same across sectors. Second, shocks to technology must be sufficiently positively correlated across sectors. Third, capital must be used more intensively in the market sector than in the home sector. A home production model with these three properties can be surprisingly successful at reconciling the RBC paradigm with evidence for a low IES.'] ['This paper studies tests of predictability in regressions with a given AR(1) regressor and an asset return dependent variable measured over a short or long horizon. The paper shows that when there is a persistent predictable component in the return, an increase in the horizon may increase the R2 statistic of the regression and the approximate slope of a predictability test. Monte Carlo experiments show that long-horizon regression tests have serious size distortions when asymptotic critical values are used, but some versions of such tests have power advantages remaining after size is corrected.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper uses a disaggregated approach to study the volatility of common stocks at the market, industry, and firm levels. Over the period from 1962 to 1997 there has been a noticeable increase in firm-level volatility relative to market volatility. Accordingly, correlations among individual stocks and the explanatory power of the market model for a typical stock have declined, whereas the number of stocks needed to achieve a given level of diversification has increased. All the volatility measures move together countercyclically and help to predict GDP growth. Market volatility tends to lead the other volatility series. Factors that may be responsible for these findings are suggested. Copyright The American Finance Association 2001.'] ['According to conventional wisdom, long-term bonds are appropriate for conservative long-term investors. This paper develops a model of optimal consumption and portfolio choice for infinite-lived investors with recursive utility who face stochastic interest rates, solves the model using an approximate analytical method, and evaluates conventional wisdom. As risk aversion increases, the myopic component of risky asset demand disappears but the intertemporal hedging component does not. Conservative investors hold assets to hedge the risk that real interest rates will decline. Long-term inflation-indexed bonds are most suitable for this purpose, but nominal bonds may also be used if inflation risk is low.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper surveys the field of asset pricing. The emphasis is on the interplay between theory and empirical work and on the trade-off between risk and return. Modern research seeks to understand the behavior of the stochastic discount factor (SDF) that prices all assets in the economy. The behavior of the term structure of real interest rates restricts the conditional mean of the SDF, whereas patterns of risk premia restrict its conditional volatility and factor structure. Stylized facts about interest rates, aggregate stock prices, and cross-sectional patterns in stock returns have stimulated new research on optimal portfolio choice, intertemporal equilibrium models, and behavioral finance. Copyright The American Finance Association 2000.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We show that the external habit-formation model economy of Campbell and Cochrane (1999) can explain why the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) and its extensions are betterapproximate asset pricing models than is the standard onsumption-based model. The model economy produces time-varying expected eturns, tracked by the dividend-price ratio. Portfolio-based models capture some of this variation in state variables, which a state-independent function of consumption cannot capture. Therefore, though the consumption-based model and CAPM are both perfect "conditional" asset pricing models, the portfolio-based models are better approximate "unconditional" asset pricing models. Copyright The American Finance Association 2000.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper presents an approximate analytical solution to the optimal consumption and portfolio choice problem of an infinitely lived investor with Epstein-Zin-Weil utility who faces a constant riskless interest rate and a time-varying equity premium. When the model is calibrated to U. S. stock market data, it implies that intertemporal hedging motives greatly increase, and may even double, the average demand for stocks by investors whose risk-aversion coefficients exceed one. The optimal portfolio policy also involves timing the stock market. Failure to time or to hedge can cause large welfare losses relative to the optimal policy. \xc2\xa9 2000 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Community Development around the World: Practice, Theory, Research and Training. Edited by Hubert Campferns. Toronto and London: University of Toronto Press, 1997. Pp.xvi + 481. NP. ISBN 0 8020 0903 4 and 7884 2 Cultural Perspectives on Development. Edited by Vincent Tucker. London and Portland, OR: Frank Cass/EADI, 1997. Pp.136. \xef\xbf\xbd16. ISBN 0 7146 4337 8 Questioning Development: Essays in the Theory, Policies and Practice of Development Interventions. Edited by Gabriele Kohler, Charles Gore, Utz-Peter Reich and Thomas Ziesemer. Marhurg: Metropolis-Verlag, 1996. Pp.450. NP. ISBN 3 895180750 Development Economics: From the Poverty to the Wealth of Nations. By Yujiro Hayami. Oxford and New York: Clarendon Press, 1997. Pp.xx + 316. \xef\xbf\xbd40. ISBN 0 19 829207 4 Development Economics. By Richard Grabowski and Michael Shields. Cambridge, MA and Oxford: Blackwell, 1996. Pp.xi + 299. \xef\xbf\xbd21.99. ISBN 1 55786 706 2 The Process of Economic Development. By James Cypher and James Dietz. London and New York: Routledge, 1997. Pp.xxiii + 608. \xef\xbf\xbd65 and \xef\xbf\xbd19.99. ISBN 0 415 11027 0 and 11028 9 The Diploma Disease: Education, Qualification and Development. By Ron Dore. Second Edition. London: Institute of Education, 1997. Pp.xxxii + 214. \xef\xbf\xbd7.95. ISBN 0 85473 498 8 Special Issue: The Diploma Disease Twenty Years On,Assessment in Education, Vol.4, No.1, 1997. Pp.208. ISSN 0969 594 X The Environment and Emerging Development Issues (2 volumes). Edited by Partha Dasgupta and Karl-Goran Maler. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1997. Pp.xviii + 593. \xef\xbf\xbd30 (Vol.1); \xef\xbf\xbd35 (Vol.2). ISBN 0 19 828767 4 (Volume 1); 0 19 828768 2 (Volume 2) The Economic Organization of East Asian Capitalism. By Marco Orru, Nicole Woolsey Biggart and Gary G. Hamilton. London and New Delhi: Sage, 1997. Pp.xii + 426. \xef\xbf\xbd43 and \xef\xbf\xbd19.95. ISBN 0 7619 0479 4 and 0480 8 Power in Motion. Capital Mobility and the Indonesian State. By Jeffrey A. Winters. Ithaca, NY and London: Cornell University Press, 1996. Pp.xvi + 241. \xef\xbf\xbd27.50. ISBN 0 8014 3148 4 Environmental Change in South East Asia: People, Politics and Sustainable Development. Edited by Michael J.G. Parnwell and Raymond L. Bryant. London: Routledge, 1996. Pp.383. \xef\xbf\xbd50 and \xef\xbf\xbd15.99. ISBN 0 415 12933 8 Big Men, Small Boys and Politics in Ghana: Power, Ideology and the Burden of History, 1982-94. By Paul Nugent. London and New York: Pinter, 1996. Pp.xiv + 306. \xef\xbf\xbd49.50. ISBN 1 85567 373 8 Rural Industrialization in Indonesia: A Case Study of Community-Based Weaving Industry in West Java. By Kosuke Mizuno. Tokyo; Institute of Developing Economies, Occasional Papers Series No.31, 1996. Pp.viii + 114. US$58. ISBN 4 258 52031 4 Missing a Moving Target? Colonist Technology Development on the Amazon Frontier. By Michael Richards. London: Overseas Development Institute, 1997. Pp.xvi + 94. \xef\xbf\xbd10.95. ISBN 0 85003 301 2 Societies and Nature in the Sahel. By Claude Raynaut. London: Routledge, 1997. Pp.xxiii + 351. \xef\xbf\xbd50. ISBN 0415 14102 8 Changing the Rules: The Politics of Liberalization and the Urban Informal Economy in Tanzania. By Aili Mari Tripp. Berkeley, CA: University of California Press. 1997. Pp.xxii + 260. \xef\xbf\xbd38 and \xef\xbf\xbd13.95. ISBN 0 520 20278 3 and 20279 1'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper uses an equilibrium multifactor model to interpret the cross-sectional pattern of postwar U.S. stock and bond returns. Priced factors include the return on a stock index, revisions in forecasts of future stock returns (to capture intertemporal hedging effects), and revisions in forecasts of future labor income growth (proxies for the return on human capital). Aggregate stock market risk is the main factor determining excess returns but, in the presence of human capital or stock market mean reversion, the coefficient of relative risk aversion is much higher than the price of stock market risk. Copyright 1996 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['This paper reviews the literature on the relation between short- and long-term interest rates. It summarizes the mixed evidence on the expectation hypothesis of the term structure: when long rates are high relative to short rates, short rates tend to rise as implied by the expectations hypothesis, but long rates tend to fall, which is contrary to the expectations hypothesis. The paper discusses the response of the U.S. bond market to shifts in monetary policy in the spring of 1994 and reviews the debate over the optimal maturity structure of the U.S. government debt.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper argues that a clear understanding of the stochastic growth model can best be achieved by working out an approximate analytical solution. The proposed solution method replaces the true budget constraints and Euler equations of economic agents with loglinear approximations. The model then becomes a system of loglinear expectational difference equations, which can be solved by the method of undetermined coefficients. The paper uses this technique to study shocks to techno- logy and shocks to government spending financed by lump-sum or distortionary taxation. It emphasizes that the persistence of shocks is an important determinant of their macroeconomic effects.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper estimates an equilibrium model of stock price behavior in which changes in exponentially detrended dividends and prices are normally distributed and exogenous "noise traders" interact with "smart-money" investors who have constant absolute ris k aversion. The model can explain the volatility and predictability of U.S. stock returns in the period 1871-1986 using either a low discount rate (4 percent or below) and a large constant risk discount on the stock price, or a higher discount rate (5 percent or above) and noise trading correlated with fundamentals. The data are not well able to distinguish between these explanations. Copyright 1993 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] [" This paper investigates the relationship between aggregate stock market trading volume and the serial correlation of daily stock returns. For both stock indexes and individual large stocks, the first-order daily return autocorrelation tends to decline with volume. The paper explains this phenomenon using a model in which risk-averse 'market makers'accommodate buying or selling pressure from 'liquidity'or 'noninformational' traders. Changing expected stock returns reward market makers for playing this role. The model implies that a stock price decline on a high-volume day is more likely than a stock price decline on a low-volume day to be associated with an increase in the expected stock return. Copyright 1993, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] [" In this article we break assets' betas with common factors into components attributable to news about future cash flows, real interest rates, and excess returns. To achieve this decomposition, we use a vector autoregressive time-series model and an approximate log-linear present value relation. The betas of industry and size portfolios with the market are largely attributed to changing expected returns. Betas with inflation and industrial production reflect opposing cash flow and expected return effects. We also show how asset pricing theory restricts the expected excess return components of betas. Article published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Financial Studies in its journal, The Review of Financial Studies."] [' This paper proposes a new way to generalize the insights of static asset pricing theory to a multiperiod setting. The paper uses a loglinear approximation to the budget constraint to substitute out consumption from a standard intertemporal asset pricing model. In a homoskedastic lognormal setting, the consumption-wealth ratio is shown to depend on the elasticity of intertemporal substitution in consumption, while asset risk premia are determined by the coefficient of relative risk aversion. Risk premia are related to the covariances of asset returns with the market return and with news about the discounted value of all future market returns. Copyright 1993 by American Economic Association.'] [' This note discusses some issues that arise when Johansen\'s (1991) framework is used to analyze cointegrating relationships among variables with deterministic linear time trends. We distinguish "stochastic" and "deterministic" cointegration, arguing that stochastic cointegration is sufficient for the existence of an error correction representation and that it is often the hypothesis of interest in empirical applications. We show that Johansen\'s (1991) method, which includes only a constant term in the estimated regression system, does not allow for stochastic cointegration. We propose to modify Johansen\'s method by including a vector of deterministic linear trends in the estimated model. We present tabulated critical values of the maximal eigen value and trace statistics appropriate for this case. We discuss the circumstances under which our modification may be useful.'] [' This paper uses a vector autoregressive model to decompose excess stock and ten-year bond returns into changes in expectations of future stock dividends, inflation, short-term real interest rates, and excess stock and bond returns. In monthly postwa r U.S. data, stock and bond returns are driven largely by news about future excess stock returns and inflation, respectively. Real intere st rates have little impact on returns, although they do affect the short-term nominal interest rate and the slope of the term structure. These findings help to explain the low correlation between excess st ock and bond returns. Copyright 1993 by American Finance Association.'] ['This paper is an introduction to unit root econometrics as applied in macroeconomics. The paper first discusses univariate time series analysis, emphasizing the following topics: alternative representations of unit root processes, unit root testing procedures, the power of unit root tests, and the interpretation of unit root econometrics in finite samples. A second part of the paper tackles similar issues in a multivariate context where cointegration is now the central concept. The paper reviews representation, testing, and estimation of multivariate time series models with some unit roots. Two important themes of this paper are first, the importance of correctly specifying deterministic components of the series; and second, the usefulness of unit root tests not as methods to uncover some "true relation" but as practical devices that can be used to impose reasonable restrictions on the data and to suggest what asymptotic distribution theory gives the best approximation to the finite-sample distribution of coefficient estimates and test statistics.'] ['It seems plausible that an increase in stock market volatility raises required stock returns, and thus lowers stock prices. We develop a formal model of this volatility feedback effect using a simple model of changing variance (a quadratic generalized autoregressive conditionally heteroskedastic, or QGARCH, model). Our model is asymmetric and helps to explain the negative skewness and excess kurtosis of U.S. monthly and daily stock returns over the period 1926\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x80\x9c1988. We find that volatility feedback normally has little effect on returns, but it can be important during periods of high volatility.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper uses the predictability of monthly excess returns on U.S. and Japanese equity portfolios over the U.S Treasury bill rate to study the integration of long-term capital markets in these two countries. During the period 1971-90, similar variables, including the dividend-price ratio and interest-rate variables, help to forecast excess returns in each country. In addition, in the 1980s, U.S. variables help to forecast excess Japanese stock returns. There is some evidence of common movement in expected excess returns across the two countries, which is suggestive of integration of long-term capital markets. Copyright 1992 by American Finance Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper shows that unexpected stock returns must be associated with changes in expected future dividends or expected future returns. A vector autoregressive method is used to break unexpected stock returns into these two components. In U.S. monthly data in 1927-88, one-third of the variance of unexpected returns is attributed to the variance of changing expected dividends, one-third to the variance of changing expected returns, and one-third to the covariance of the two components. Changing expected returns have a large effect on stock prices because they are persistent: a 1 percent innovation in the expected return is associated with a 4 or 5 percent capital loss. Changes in expected returns are negatively correlated with changes in expected dividends, increasing the stock market reaction to dividend news. In the period 1952-88, changing expected returns account for larger fraction of stock return variation than they do in the period 1927-51. Copyright 1991 by Royal Economic Society.'] [' This paper examines postwar U.S. term structure data and finds that, for almost any combination of maturities between one month and ten years, a high-yield spread between a longer-term and a shorter-term interest rate forecasts rising shorter-term interest rates over the long term, but a declining yield on the longer-term bond over the short term. This pattern is inconsistent with the expectations theory of the term structure, but is consistent with a model in which the spread is proportional to the value implied by the expectations theory. Copyright 1991 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This article reexamines the consistency of the permanent-income hypothesis with aggregate postwar U.S. data. The permanent-income hypothesis is nested within a more general model in which a fraction of income accrues to individuals who consume their current income rather than their permanent income. This fraction is estimated to be about 50 percent, indicating a substantial departure from the permanent-income hypothesis. Our results cannot be easily explained by time aggregation for small-sample bias, by managers in the real interest rate, or by nonseparabilities in the utility function of consumers.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper summarizes earlier research On the sources of variation in monthly U.S. stock returns in the period 1927-88. A log-linear model is used to break unexpected returns into changing expectations about future dividends and changing expectations about future returns. Even though stock returns are not highly forecastable, the model attributes one-third of the variation in returns to changing expected returns, one-third to changing future dividends, and one-third to the covariance between these components. Changing expected returns have a large effect on the stock market because their movements are persistent and negatively correlated with changing expected dividends.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' For thirty years it has been accepted that consumption is smooth because permanent income is smoother than measured income. This paper considers the evidence for the contrary position--that permanent income is in fact less smooth than measured income, so that the smoothness of consumption cannot be straightforwardly explained by permanent income theory. The paper argues that in postwar U.S. quarterly data, consumption is smooth because it responds with a lag to changes in income. Copyright 1989 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] ['This paper presents new evidence on the persistence of fluctuations in real GNP. Two measures of persistence are estimated non-parametrically using post-war quarterly data from Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom. and the United States. These estimates are compared with Monte Carlo results from various AR(2) processes. For six out of seven countries, the results indicate that a 1 percent shock to output should change the long-run univariate forecast of output by well over I percent. Low-order ARM models for output growth are also estimated, and yield similar conclusions. Finally, the persistence in relative outputs of different countries is examined.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Small sample properties of parameter estimates and test statistics in the vector autoregressive dividend ratio model (Campbell and Shiller [1988 a,b]) are derived by stochastic simulation. The data generating processes are co integrated vector autoregressive models, estimated subject to restrictions implied by the dividend ratio model, or altered to show a unit root.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper presents estimates indicating that, for aggregate U.S. stock market data 1871-1986, a long historical average of real earnings is a good predictor of the present value of future real dividends. This is true even when the information contained in stock prices is taken into account. We estimate that for each year the optimal forecast of the present value of future real dividends is roughly a weighted average of moving average earnings and current real price, with between 2/3 and 3/4 of the weight on the earnings measure. This means that simple present value models of stock prices can be strongly rejected. We use a vector autoregressive approach which enables us to compute the implications of this for the behavior of stock prices and returns. We estimate that log dividend-price ratios are more variable than, and virtually uncorrelated with, their theoretical counterparts given the present value models. Annual returns on stocks are quite highly correlated with their theoretical counterparts, but are two to four times as variable. Our approach also reveals the connection between recent papers showing forecastability of long-horizon returns on corporate stocks, and earlier literature claiming that stock prices are too volatile to be accounted for in terms of simple present value models. We show that excess volatility directly implies the forecastability of long-horizon returns.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['A linearization of a rational expectations present value model for corporate stock prices produces a simple relation between the log dividend-price ratio and mathematical expectations of future log real dividend changes and future real discount rates. This relation can be tested using vector autoregressive methods. Three versions of the linearized model, differing in the measure of discount rates, are tested for United States time series 1981-1986: versions using real interest rate data. The results yield a metric to judge the relative importance of real dividend growth, measured real discount rates and unexplained factors in determining the dividend-price ratio.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Error-correction models for cointegrated economic variables are commonly interpreted as reflecting partial adjustment of one variable to another. We show that error-correction models may also arise because one variable forecasts another. Reduced-form estimates of error-correction models cannot be used to distinguish these interpretations. In an application, we show that the estimated coefficients in the Marsh-Merton [I9871 error-correction model of dividend behavior in the stock market are roughly implied by a near-rational expectations model wherein dividends are persistent and prices are disturbed by some persistent random noise. Their results thus do not demonstrate partial adjustment or "smoothing" by managers, but may reflect little more than the persistence of dividends and the noisiness of prices.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["In this paper, we investigate the link between the real foreign exchange value of the dollar and real interest rates since 1979. We argue that it is important to consider the possibility that real exchange rate movements reflect movements of the long-run equilibrium exchange rate as well as real interest differentials. We use a state-space approach to estimate the importance of shifts in the long-run equilibrium exchange rate, the persistence of the ex ante short-term real interest differential, and the effect of this differential on the exchange rate. Using U.S., Canadian, British, German and Japanese data from October 1979 to March 1986, we find that movements in the dollar real exchange rate have been dominated by unanticipated shifts in the expected long-run real exchange rate. Ex ante real interest differentials have not been persistent or variable enough to account for a major part of exchange rate variation. We use Mussa's (1984) rational expectations model of the real exchange rate and the current account to interpret our results.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["According to the conventional view of the business cycle, fluctuations in output represent temporary deviations from trend. The purpose of this paper is to question this conventional view. If fluctuations in output are dominated by temporary deviations from the natural rate of output, then an unexpected change in output today should not substantially change one's forecast of output in, say, five or ten years. Our examination of quarterly postwar United States data leads us to be skeptical about this implication. The data suggest that an unexpected change in real GNP of 1 percent should change one's forecast by over 1 percent over a long horizon.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' The permanent income hypothesis implies that people save because they rationally expect their permanent income to decline; they save "for a rainy day." It follows that saving should be at l east as good a predictor of declines in labor income as any other for ecast that can be constructed from publicly available information. Th e paper tests this hitherto ignored implication of the permanent inco me hypothesis, using quarterly aggregate data for the period 1953-84 in the United States. By contrast with much of the recent literature, the results here are valid when income is stationary in first differ ences rather than levels. Copyright 1987 by The Econometric Society.'] ['It is well known that in the postwar period stockreturns have tended to be low when the short term nominal interest rate is high. In this paper I show that more generally the state of the term structure of interest rates predicts stock returns. Risk premia on stocks appear to move closely together with those on 20-year Treasury bonds, while risk premia on Treasury bills move somewhat independently. Average returns on 20-year bonds have been very low relative to average returns on stocks. I use these observations to test some simple asset pricing models. First I consider latent variable models in which betas are constant and risk premia vary with expected returns on a small number of unobservable hedge portfolios. The data strongly reject a single-latent-variable model.The last part of the paper examines the relationship between conditional means and variances of returns on bills, bonds and stocks. Bill returns tend to be high when their conditional variance is high, but there is a perverse negative relationship between stock returns and their conditional variance. A model is estimated which assumes that asset returns are determined by their time-varying betas with a fixed-weight "benchmark" portfolio of bills, bonds and stocks, whose return is proportional to its conditional variance. This portfolio is estimated to place almost all its weight on bills, indicating that uncertainty about nominal interest rates is important in pricing both short- and long-term assets.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' The effect of money stock announcements on the federal funds rate hasbeen attributed informally to the information conveyed by the announcements about aggregate reserved emand. This "Aggregate Information Hypothesis" explains the effect without ref erence to Federal Reserve intervention in the funds market. In this paper, the a uthor provides a formal model of the Aggregate Information Hypothesis under lagged reserve accounting. The model relies on imperfect information in the funds ma rket and on imperfect bank arbitrage of reserve demand between days of the week. Some stylized facts are presented about funds rate behavior in the period 1980-83. Copyright 1987 by Ohio State University Press.'] ['This paper is an empirical investigation of the predictability and co-movement of risk premia in the term structure of Euromarket interest rates. We present regression results which suggest that risk premia in three Euromarket term structures and on uncovered foreign asset positions move together. We test formally the hypothesis that these risk premia move in proportion to a single latent variable. We are unable to reject this hypothesis. The single latent variable model can be interpreted as in Hansen and Hodrick (1983) and Hodrick and Srivastava (1984) as a specialization of the ICAPM in which assets have constant betas on a single, unobservable benchmark portfolio.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Application of some advances in econometrics (in the theory of cointegrated vector autoregressive models) enables us to deal effectively with two problems in rational-expectations, present-valu e models: nonstationarity of time series and incomplete data on infor mation of market participants. With U.S. data, the authors find some relatively encouraging new results for the rational-expectations theo ry of the term structure and some puzzling results for the present-va lue model of stock prices. Copyright 1987 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['Fluctuations in real GNP have traditionally been viewed as transitory deviations from a deterministic time trend. The purpose of this paper is to review some of the recent developments that have led to a new view of output fluctuations and then to provide some additional evidence. Using post-war quarterly data, it is hard to reject the view that real GNP is as persistent as a random walk with drift. We also consider the hypothesis that the recent finding of persistence are due to the failure to distinguish the business cycle from other fluctuations in real GNP. We use the measured unemployment rate to decompose output fluctuations. We find no evidence for the view that business cycle fluctuations are more quickly trend-reverting.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['In this paper I analyze a simple "representative agent" exchange model of general equilibrium, and derive closed form solutions for returns on stocks and real and nominal bonds. The model restricts the representative agent\'s utility function to be time-separable with isoelastic period utility, and the endowment to be conditionally lognormal. These assumptions allow me to examine a general stationary stochastic process for the log of the endowment. Money and nominal prices are modelled by means of a Clower constraint. Risk premia on stocks and real and nominal discount bonds are simple functions of the coefficient of relative risk aversion, the variance of the innovation to the log endowment, and the weights in the moving average representation of the log endowment. One-period holding premia on real bonds may be positive or negative, but the limit as maturity increases is positive. When the money supply is deterministic, stocks and nominal bonds are perfect substitutes. Their expected returns to maturity are higher than those on real bonds of equal maturity, but need not be higher over other holding periods. Nominal interest rates vary positively with prices (the "Gibson paradox") if the coefficient of relative risk aversion is greater than one. In the last section of the paper I consider random shocks to the agent\'s utility function. These shocks may generate risk premia even when the agent is risk-neutral.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Expectations theories of asset returns may be interpreted either as stating that risk premia are zero or that they are constant through time. Under the former interpretation, different versions of the expectations theory of the term structure are inconsistent with one another, but I show that this does not necessarily carry over to the constant risk premium interpretation of the theory. I present a general equilibrium example in which different types of risk premium are constant through time and dependent only on maturity. Furthermore, I argue that differences among expectations theories are second-order effects of bond yield variability. I develop an approximate linearized framework for analysis of the term structure in which these differences disappear, and I test its accuracy in practice using data from the CRSP government bond tapes.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Recent empirical research on the term structure of interest rates has shown that the long-term interest rate is well described by adistributed lag on short-term interest rates, but does not conform to the expectations theory of the term structure. It has been suggested that the long rate "overreacts" to the short rate. This paper presents aunified taxonomy of risk premia, or deviations from the expectations theory. This enables the hypothesis of overreaction to be formally stated. It is shown that, if anything, the long rate has underreacted to the short rate. However, the independent movement of the long rate is primarily responsible for the failure of the expectations theory.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']