 ['Most economies experience episodes of persistent real exchange rate appreciations, when the question arises whether there is a need for intervention to protect the export sector. This paper presents a model of irreversible destruction where exchange rate intervention may be justified if the export sector is financially constrained. However, the criterion for intervention is not whether there are bankruptcies or not, but whether these can cause a large exchange rate overshooting once the factors behind the appreciation subside. The optimal policy includes ex-ante and ex-post interventions. Ex-ante (that is, during the appreciation phase) interventions have limited effects if the financial resources in the export sector are relatively abundant. In this case the bulk of the intervention takes place ex-post, and is concentrated in the first period of the depreciation phase. In contrast, if the financial constraint in the export sector is tight, the policy is shifted toward ex-ante intervention and it is optimal to lean against the appreciation.'] ['Financial assets provide return and liquidity services to their holders. However, during severe financial crises many asset prices plummet, destroying their liquidity provision function at the worst possible time. In this paper we present a model of fire sales and market breakdowns, and of the financial amplification mechanism that follows from them. The distinctive feature of our model is the central role played by endogenous complexity: As asset prices implode, more "banks" within the financial network become distressed, which increases each (non-distressed) bank\'s likelihood of being hit by an indirect shock. As this happens, banks face an increasingly complex environment since they need to understand more and more interlinkages in making their financial decisions. This complexity brings about confusion and uncertainty, which makes relatively healthy banks, and hence potential asset buyers, reluctant to buy since they now fear becoming embroiled in a cascade they do not control or understand. The liquidity of the market quickly vanishes and a financial crisis ensues. The model exhibits a powerful "complexity-externality." As a potential asset buyer chooses to pull back, the size of the cascade grows, which increases the degree of complexity of the environment. This rise in perceived complexity induces other healthy banks to pull back, which exacerbates the fire sale and the cascade.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Microeconomic flexibility is at the core of economic growth in modern market economies because it facilitates the process of creative-destruction. The main reason why this process is not infinitely fast, is the presence of adjustment costs, some of them technological, others institutional. Chief among the latter is labor market regulation. While few economists object to the hypothesis that labor market regulation hinders the process of creative-destruction, its empirical support is limited. In this paper we revisit this hypothesis, using a new sectoral panel for 60 countries and a methodology suitable for such a panel. We find that job security regulation clearly hampers the creative-destruction process, especially in countries where regulations are likely to be enforced. Moving from the 20th to the 80th percentile in job security, in countries with strong rule of law, cuts the annual speed of adjustment to shocks by a third while shaving off about 1% from annual productivity growth. The same movement has negligible effects in countries with weak rule of law.'] ['The sensitivity of US aggregate investment to shocks is procyclical. The response upon impact increases by approximately 50 percent from the trough to the peak of the business cycle. This feature of the data follows naturally from a DSGE model with lumpy microeconomic capital adjustment. Beyond explaining this specific time variation, our model and evidence provide a counterexample to the claim that microeconomic investment lumpiness is inconsequential for macroeconomic analysis.'] ['The recent financial crisis has damaged the reputation of macroeconomics, largely for its inability to predict the impending financial and economic crisis. To be honest, this inability to predict does not concern me much. It is almost tautological that severe crises are essentially unpredictable, for otherwise they would not cause such a high degree of distress. What does concern me about my discipline is that its current core\xe2\x80\x94by which I mainly mean the so-called dynamic stochastic general equilibrium approach\xe2\x80\x94has become so mesmerized with its own internal logic that it has begun to confuse the precision it has achieved about its own world with the precision that it has about the real one. This is dangerous for both methodological and policy reasons. To be fair to our field, an enormous amount of work at the intersection of macroeconomics and corporate finance has been chasing many of the issues that played a central role during the current crisis, including liquidity evaporation, collateral shortages, bubbles, crises, panics, fire sales, risk-shifting, contagion, and the like. However, much of this literature belongs to the periphery of macroeconomics rather than to its core. I will discuss the distinction between the core and the periphery of macroeconomics as well as the futile nature of the integrationist movement\xe2\x80\x94that is, the process of gradually bringing the insights of the periphery into the dynamic stochastic general equilibrium structure. I argue that the complexity of macroeconomic interactions limits the knowledge we can ever attain, and that we need to place this fact at the center of our analysis. We should consider what this complexity does to the actions and reactions of the economic agent, and seek analytical tools and macroeconomic policies that are robust to the enormous uncertainty to which we are confined.'] [' We study how financial frictions and the saving rate shape the long-run effects of trade liberalization on income, consumption, and the distribution of wealth in financially underdeveloped economies. In our model, regardless of whether the capital account is open or not, trade liberalization reduces the share of wealth in the hands of entrepreneurs and may well reduce steady-state consumption and income. Furthermore, trade opening is more likely to reduce steady-state consumption and output, the higher is the level of financial development. For economies with an open capital account, a higher saving rate also increases the likelihood that a trade liberalization leads to a reduction in steady-state consumption and output. (JEL: E2, F1, F2, F3, F4) (c) 2010 by the European Economic Association.'] ['There are striking and terrifying similarities between the sudden failure of a heart and that of a financial system. In the medical literature, the former is referred to as sudden cardiac arrest. By analogy, I refer to its financial counterpart as a sudden financial arrest. In this article I describe the latter and its treatment guided by its medical counterpart.'] ["The conventional wisdom is that politicians' rent-seeking motives increase public debt and deficits. This is because myopic politicians face political risk and prefer to extract political rents as early as possible. In this paper we study the determination of government debt and deficits in a dynamic political economy model. We show that this conventional wisdom relies on economic volatility being low relative to political uncertainty. If economic volatility is high relative to political uncertainty, then a rent-seeking government actually over-saves and over-taxes along the equilibrium path relative to a benevolent government. This result emerges because of the option value of rent-seeking: a rent-seeking government over-values future funds because of the possibility of using them for future rents instead of cutting taxes in the event of a future boom (when marginal utility of private consumption is low). This over-saving bias is temporary since, in the long run, the rent-seeking government over-borrows relative to the benevolent government as it eventually squanders the funds it has accumulated. We find that both the under-saving and over-saving bias of the government can be solved by a rule of capping deficits."] [' The classical Heckscher-Ohlin-Mundell paradigm states that trade and capital mobility are substitutes in the sense that trade integration reduces the incentives for capital to flow to capital-scarce countries. In this paper we show that in a world with heterogeneous financial development, a very different conclusion emerges. In particular, in less financially developed economies (South), trade and capital mobility are complements in the sense that trade integration increases the return to capital and thus the incentives for capital to flow to South. This interaction implies that deepening trade integration in South raises net capital inflows (or reduces net capital outflows). It also implies that, at the global level, protectionism may backfire if the goal is to rebalance capital flows. (c) 2009 by The University of Chicago. All rights reserved..'] ['\xc2\xabEverything which involves turbulence is enormously more complicated, not just a little bit more complicated, not just one year more schooling, just enormously more complicated\xc2\xbb. (Mandelbrot interview with PBS News Hour, October 21th, 2008 by SOLMAN P.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The U.S. is currently engulfed in the most severe financial crisis since the Great Depression. A key structural factor behind this crisis is the large demand for riskless assets from the rest of the world. In this paper we present a model to show how such demand not only triggered a sharp rise in U.S. asset prices, but also exposed the U.S. financial sector to a downturn by concentrating risk onto its balance sheet. In addition to highlighting the role of capital flows in facilitating the securitization boom, our analysis speaks to the broader issue of global imbalances. While in emerging markets the concern with capital flows is in their speculative nature, in the U.S. the risk in capital inflows derives from the opposite concern: capital flows into the U.S. are mostly non-speculative and in search of safety. As a result, the U.S. sells riskless assets to foreigners, and in so doing, it raises the effective leverage of its financial institutions. In other words, as global imbalances rise, the U.S. increasingly specializes in holding its "toxic waste."<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Severe flight to quality episodes involve uncertainty about the environment, not only risk about asset payoffs. The uncertainty is triggered by unusual events and untested financial innovations that lead agents to question their worldview. We present a model of crises and central bank policy that incorporates Knightian uncertainty. The model explains crisis regularities such as market-wide capital immobility, agents' disengagement from risk, and liquidity hoarding. We identify a social cost of these behaviors, and a benefit of a lender of last resort facility. The benefit is particularly high because public and private insurance are complements during uncertainty-driven crises. Copyright (c) 2008 The American Finance Association."] ['Uncertainty \xe2\x80\x93that is, a rise in unknown and immeasurable risk rather than the measurable risk that the financial sector specializes in managing\xe2\x80\x93 is at the heart of the recent liquidity crisis. The financial instruments and derivative structures underpinning the recent growth in credit markets are complex. Because of the rapid proliferation of these instruments, market participants cannot refer to a historical record to measure how these financial structures will behave during a time of stress. These two factors, complexity and lack of history, are the preconditions for rampant uncertainty. We explain how a rise in uncertainty can cause a liquidity crisis and discuss central bank policies in this context.'] ["Even well managed emerging market economies are exposed to significant external risk, the bulk of which is financial. At a moment's notice, these economies may be required to reverse the capital inflows that have supported the preceding boom. While capital flows crises are sudden nonlinear events (sudden stops), their likelihood fluctuates over time. The question we address in the paper is how should a country react to these fluctuations. Depending on the hedging possibilities the country faces, the options range from pure self-insurance to hedging the sudden stop jump itself. In between, there is the more likely possibility to hedge the smoother fluctuations in the likelihood of sudden stops. The main contribution of the paper is to provide an analytically and empirically tractable model that allows us to characterize and quantify optimal contingent liability management in a variety of scenarios. We show, with a concrete example, that the gains from contingent liability management can easily exceed the equivalent of cutting a country's external liabilities by 10 percent of GDP. *This is a revision of the June 2003 version.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The sustained rise in US current account deficits, the stubborn decline in long-run real rates, and the rise in US assets in global portfolios appear as anomalies from the perspective of conventional models. This paper rationalizes these facts as an equilibrium outcome when different regions of the world differ in their capacity to generate financial assets from real investments. Extensions of the basic model generate exchange rate and foreign direct investment excess returns broadly consistent with the recent trends in these variables. The framework is flexible enough to shed light on a range of scenarios in a global equilibrium environment. (JEL: E44, F21, F31, F32)'] ['Large Japanese banks often engaged in sham loan restructurings that kept credit flowing to otherwise insolvent borrowers (which we call zombies). We examine the implications of suppressing the normal competitive process whereby the zombies would shed workers and lose market share. The congestion created by the zombies reduces the profits for healthy firms, which discourages their entry and investment. We confirm that zombie-dominated industries exhibit more depressed job creation and destruction, and lower productivity. We present firm-level regressions showing that the increase in zombies depressed the investment and employment growth of non-zombies and widened the productivity gap between zombies and non-zombies. (JEL G21, G32, L25)'] ["What is the relation between infrequent price adjustment and the dynamic response of the aggregate price level to monetary shocks? The answer to this question ranges from a one-to-one link (Calvo, 1983) to no connection whatsoever (Caplin and Spulber, 1987). The purpose of this paper is to provide a unified framework to understand the mechanisms behind this wide range of results. In doing so, we propose new interpretations of key results in this area, which in turn suggest the kind of Ss model that is likely to generate substantial price rigidity. The first result we revisit is Caplin and Spulber's monetary neutrality model. We show that when price stickiness is measured in terms of the impulse response function, this result is not a consequence of aggregation, but is due instead to the absence of price-stickiness at the microeconomic level. We also show that the \xe2\x80\x9cselection effect,\xe2\x80\x9d according to which units that adjust their prices are those that benefit the most, is neither necessary nor sufficient to account for the higher aggregate flexibility of Ss-type models compared to Calvo models. Instead, the key concept is the contribution of the extensive margin of adjustment to the aggregate price response. The aggregate price level is more flexible than suggested by the microeconomic frequency of adjustment if and only if this term is positive.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['We propose a framework for understanding episodes of vigorous economic expansion and extreme asset valuations. We interpret this phenomenon as a highvaluation equilibrium with a low cost of capital based on optimism about future funding. The key ingredient for such equilibrium is feedback from increased growth to a decline in the long-run cost of capital. This feedback arises when an expansion comes with technological progress in the capital sector, when fiscal rules generate procyclical fiscal surpluses, when the rest of the world has lower expansion potential or high saving needs, and when financial constraints are relaxed by the expansion itself. (JEL E22, O33, O41)'] ['Emerging market economies are fertile ground for the development of real estate and other financial bubbles. Despite these economies\' significant growth potential, their corporate and government sectors do not generate the financial instruments to provide residents with adequate stores of value. Capital often flows out of these economies seeking these stores of value in the developed world. Bubbles are beneficial because they provide domestic stores of value and thereby reduce capital outflows while increasing investment. But they come at a cost, as they expose the country to bubble-crashes and capital flow reversals. We show that domestic financial underdevelopment not only facilitates the emergence of bubbles, but also leads agents to undervalue the aggregate risk embodied in financial bubbles. In this context, even rational bubbles can be welfare reducing. We study a set of aggregate risk management policies to alleviate the bubble-risk. We show that liquidity requirements, sterilization of capital inflows and structural policies aimed at developing public debt markets "collateralized" by future revenues, all have a high payoff in this environment.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" Latin American economies are exposed to substantial external vulnerability. Domestic imbalances and terms of trade shocks are often exacerbated by sharp shifts in the net supply of external capital (sudden stops). At times, these sudden stops can be the main shock. In this paper we explore ways of overcoming external vulnerability, drawing lessons from a detailed comparison of the response of Chile and Australia to recent external shocks and from Australia's historical experience. We argue that in order to understand sudden stops and the mechanisms to smooth them it is useful to identify and then distinguish between two inter-related dimensions of investors' confidence: country-trust and currency-trust. Lack of country-trust is the fundamental problem behind sudden stops. Lack of currency-trust in turn weakens a country's ability to deal with sudden stops and real external shocks. We discuss steps aimed to improve these two dimensions of investors' confidence in the medium run, and policies to reduce the impact of country-trust and currency-trust weaknesses in the short run."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Firms in emerging markets are exposed to severe financial frictions and credit constraints that are exacerbated by the sudden stop of capital inflows. Can monetary policy offset this external credit squeeze? We show that although this may be the case during moderate contractions (or in partial equilibrium), the expansionary effect of monetary policy vanishes during severe external crises. The exchange rate jumps to reduce the dollar value of domestic collateral until equilibrium in domestic financial markets is consistent with the external constraint. An expansionary monetary policy in this context raises the value of domestic collateral, but it exacerbates the exchange rate depreciation (beyond the standard interest parity effect) and has little effect on aggregate activity. However, there is a dynamic linkage between monetary policy and sudden stops. The anticipation of a dogged defense of the exchange rate worsens the consequences of sudden stops by distorting the private sector incentive to take precautions against these shocks. For similar general equilibrium reasons, dollarization of liabilities has limited impact during a sudden stop, but it has significant underinsurance consequences.'] [' The observation that liquidations are concentrated in recessions has long been the subject of controversy. One view holds that liquidations are beneficial in that they result in increased restructuring. Another view holds that this rise in restructuring is costly since liquidations are privately inefficient and essentially wasteful. This paper proposes an alternative perspective. On the basis of a combination of theory with empirical evidence on gross job flows and on financial and labour market rents, we find that, cumulatively, recessions result in reduced rather than increased restructuring, and that this is likely to be socially costly once we consider inefficiencies on both the creation and destruction margins. Copyright 2005, Wiley-Blackwell.'] ['One of the most serious problems that a central bank in an emerging market economy can face, is the sudden reversal of capital inflows. Hoarding international reserves can be used to smooth the impact of such reversals, but these reserves are seldom sufficient and always expensive to hold. In this paper we argue that adding richer hedging instruments to the portfolios held by central banks can significantly improve the efficiency of the anti-sudden-stop mechanism. We illustrate this point with a simple quantitative hedging model, where optimally used options and futures on the S&amp;P100;\xe2\x80\x99s implied volatility index (VIX), increase the expected reserves available during sudden stops by as much as 40 percent.'] ['Emerging economies are exposed to severe and sudden shortages of international financial resources. Yet domestic agents seem not to undertake enough precautions against these sudden stops. Following our previous work, we highlight in this paper the central role played by limited domestic development in ex-ante (insurance) and ex-post (spot) financial markets in generating this collective undervaluation of external resources and insurance. Within this structure, this paper studies several canonical policies to counteract the external underinsurance. We do this by first solving for the optimal mechanism given the constraints imposed by limited domestic financial development, and then considering the main - in terms of the model and practical relevance - implementations of this mechanism.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['We characterize the degree of microeconomic inflexibility in several Latin American economies and find that Brazil, Chile and Colombia are more flexible than Mexico and Venezuela. The difference in flexibility among these economies is mainly explained by the behavior of large establishments, which adjust more promptly in the more flexible economies, especially when accumulated shocks are substantial. We also study the path of flexibility in Chile and show that it declined in the aftermath of the Asian crisis. This decline can account for a substantial fraction of the sharp fall in TFP-growth in Chile since 1997 (from 3.1 percent per year for the preceding decade, to about 0.3 percent after). Moreover, if it were to persist, it could permanently shave almost half of a percent off Chile\xe2\x80\x99s structural rate of growth.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In this paper I sketch a few ideas about which markets need to be developed and what the role of the international financial institutions is in facilitating the creation and functioning of instruments that allow for hedging and insurance against capital flow reversals in emerging markets.'] ['Los bosques cubanos han sido objeto de un explotaci\xc3\xb3n indiscriminada durante muchos a\xc3\xb1os, lo que ha provocado que se est\xc3\xa9n realizando grandes esfuerzos por el restablecimiento de los mismos y que se tienda a posiciones conservacionistas que provocan el envejecimiento de las masas. Como consecuencia de esta situaci\xc3\xb3n, tales bosques presentan una composici\xc3\xb3n por edades desequilibrada. As\xc3\xad, en este trabajo hemos elaborado un modelo con criterios m\xc3\xbaltiples que permite ordenar el bosque al finalizar el horizonte de planificaci\xc3\xb3n forestal y que compatibiliza objetivos econ\xc3\xb3micos y ecol\xc3\xb3gicos. En concreto, nos hemos centrado en plantaciones puras de Pinus Caribaea manejadas, principalmente, con prop\xc3\xb3sitos de producci\xc3\xb3n de madera y los objetivos se han formalizado como metas, resultando un problema de Programaci\xc3\xb3n por Metas. El modelo obtenido lo hemos contrastado con datos suministrados por la Empresa Forestal Integral de Pinar del R\xc3\xado (Cuba), suministrando varias soluciones que verifican los niveles de aspiraci\xc3\xb3n establecidos, entre las que se ha seleccionado aquella que logra una composici\xc3\xb3n homog\xc3\xa9nea de \xc3\xa1reas por grupo de edad. Cuban forests have been suffering an indiscriminate exploitation for many years. This why great efforts are presently being devoted to regenerate these forests, and conservationist position are being taken, which causes that the forest masses are growing older. As a consequence, such forests have an unbalanced composition by ages. Therefore, in this paper a multiple criteria model has been developed, which makes it possible to organize the forest at the end of the planning period, and to make economic and ecological objectives compatible. Namely, the study is centered in pure plantations of de Pinus Caribaea, which are being used for wood production purposes. The objectives have been turned into goals and, consequently, a Goal Programming problem has been formulated. The model has been contrasted with data provided by the Integral Forest Enterprise of Pinar del R\xc3\xado (Cuba). As a result, several solutions have been obtained, which satisfy all the goals established by the decision-makers, among which the one that achieves a more homogeneous composition of the areas by age groups has been selected.'] [' We propose that the limited financial development of emerging markets is a significant factor behind the large share of dollar-denominated external debt present in these markets. We show that when financial constraints affect borrowing and lending between domestic agents, agents undervalue insuring against an exchange rate depreciation. Since more of this insurance is present when external debt is denominated in domestic currency rather than in dollars, this result implies that domestic agents choose excessive dollar debt. We also show that limited financial development reduces the incentives for foreign lenders to enter emerging markets. The retarded entry reinforces the underinsurance problem. Copyright (c) 2003 by the American Finance Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The aim of this study is to analyse the resolution of Stochastic Programming Problems in which the objective function depends on parameters which are continuous random variables with a known distribution probability. In the literature on these questions different solution concepts have been defined for problems of these characteristics. These concepts are obtained by applying a transformation criterion to the stochastic objective which contains a statistical feature of the objective, implying that for the same stochastic problem there are different optimal solutions available which, in principle, are not comparable. Our study analyses and establishes some relations between these solution concepts.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['With traditional domestic imbalances long under control, the Chilean business cycle is driven by external shocks. Most importantly, Chile\xe2\x80\x99s external vulnerability is primarily a financial problem. A decline in the Chilean termsof- trade, for example, is associated to a decline in real GDP that is many times larger than one would predict in the presence of perfect financial markets. The financial nature of this excess-sensitivity has two central dimensions: a sharp contraction in Chile\xe2\x80\x99s access to international financial markets when it needs it the most; and an inefficient reallocation of this scarce access across domestic borrowers during external crises. In this paper I characterize this financial mechanism and argue that Chile\xe2\x80\x99s aggregate volatility can be reduced significantly by fostering the private sector\xe2\x80\x99s development of financial instruments that are contingent on Chile\xe2\x80\x99s main external shocks. As a first step, the Central Bank or IFIs could issue a benchmark instrument contingent on these shocks. I also advocate a countercyclical monetary policy but mainly for incentive \xe2\x80\x94that is, as a substitute for taxes on capital inflows and equivalent measures\xe2\x80\x94 rather than for ex-post liquidity purposes.'] ["The last few years have seen a significant re-evaluation of the models used to analyze crises in emerging markets. Recent models typically stress financial constraints or distorted financial incentives. While this certainly represents progress, these models share a weakness with the earlier work: neither is uniquely about emerging markets. Adaptations of the Mundell-Fleming model represent Argentina as a Belgium with larger external shocks. Likewise, emerging market models of financial constraints are adaptations of developed economy ones with tighter financial constraints. In our work, we have advocated a model which distinguishes between the financial constraints affecting borrowing and lending among agents within an emerging economy, and those affecting borrowing from foreign lenders. This 'dual liquidity' model offers a parsimonious description of the behavior of firms, governments, and asset prices during financial crises. It also provides prescriptions for optimal policy responses to these crises.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["We build a model of emerging markets crises which features two types of collateral constraints. Firms in a domestic economy have limited borrowing capacity from international investors. They also have limited borrowing capacity with respect to each other. We study how the presence of and changes in these collateral constraints affect financial and real variables. A binding international constraint in the aggregate leads to a sharp rise in interest rates and fire sales of domestic assets, while limited domestic collateral can lead to wasted international collateral. These two collateral constraints can interact in important ways. The first is disintermediation: a fire sale of domestic assets causes banks to fail in their function of reallocating resources across the economy leading to wasted international collateral. The second is a dynamic effect. We show that firms in an economy with limited domestic collateral and a binding international collateral constraint will not adequately precaution against adverse shocks, increasing the severity of these shocks. Our approach is distinctive in that, while much of the literature on the role of financial constraints in macroeconomics draws their insights within either of these collateral deficiencies, we argue that their static and dynamic interactions have important consequences for emerging markets' performance.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['After decades of trial, error, and occasional regress the pieces of a successful Latin American economic model can be seen scattered among the leading economies of the region. The most traditional macroeconomic maladies of the emerging world - such as chronic fiscal imbalances and monetary gimmicks are gradually being left behind. Many of these economies have made significant progress in their regulatory and supervisory frameworks and, at times, have been leaders beyond Latin American boundaries in allowing private sector co-participation in a wide array of ex-public sector activities. Despite these significant efforts, several structural sources of volatility remain, and new ones have emerged as a result of the new and otherwise better economic environment. In this paper I review these sources through the recent experiences of Argentina, Chile and Mexico.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['"After decades of trial, error, and occasional regress the pieces of a successful Latin American economic model can be seen scattered among the leading economies of the region. The most traditional macroeconomic maladies of the emerging world - such as chronic fiscal imbalances and monetary gimmicks - are gradually being left behind. Many of these economies have made significant progress in their regulatory and supervisory frameworks and, at times, have been leaders beyond Latin American boundaries in allowing private sector co-participation in a wide array of expublic sector activities. Despite these significant efforts, several structural sources of volatility remain, and new ones have emerged as a result of the new and otherwise better economic environment. In this paper I review these sources through the recent experiences of Argentina, Chile and Mexico"'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" In this paper, the authors derive a model of aggregate investment that builds from the lumpy microeconomic behavior of firms facing stochastic fixed adjustment costs. Instead of the standard sharp (S, s) bands, firms' adjustment policies take the form of a probability of adjustment (adjustment hazard) that responds smoothly to changes in firms' capacity gap. The model has appealing aggregation properties, and yields nonlinear aggregate time series processes. The passivity of normal times is, occasionally, more than offset by the brisk response to large accumulated shocks. Using within and out-of-sample criteria, the authors find that the model performs substantially better than the standard linear models of investment for postwar sectoral U.S. manufacturing equipment and structures investment data."] ['Specific quasi-rents build up in a wide variety of economic relationships, and are exposed to opportunism unless fully protected by contract. The recognition that such contracts are often incomplete has yielded major insights into the organization of microeconomic exchange. Rent appropriation, we argue, also has important macroeconomic implications. Resources are underutilized, factor markets are segmented, production suffers from technological with creation, recessions are excessively sharp, and expansions run into bottlenecks. While, depending on the nature of the shock, expansions may require reinforcement or stabilization, recessions should always be softened. In the long run, institutions, such as those governing capital-labor relations, may evolve to alleviate the problem by balancing appropriation. Technology choice will also be affected, with the appropriated factor partially appropriation as manifested in the role capital-labor substitution played in the rise of European unemployment.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['A central determinant of the political economy of capital-labor relations is tha appropriability of specific quasi-rents. This paper is concerned with the general-equilibrium interaction of appropriability and characteristics of technology - nam ely, the embodiment of technology in capital and capital-labor substitutability in the technological menu.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" This paper studies quarterly employment flows of approximately 10,000 U.S. manufacturing establishments. The authors use establishments' hours-week to construct measures of the deviation between desired and actual employment and use these as the establishments' main state variables. The main findings are: (1) microeconomic adjustment functions are nonlinear, with plants adjusting disproportionately to large shortages; (2) adjustments are often either large or nil, suggesting the presence of nonconvexities in the adjustment cost technologies; (3) the bulk of average employment fluctuations is accounted for by aggregate, rather than reallocation, shocks; and (4) microeconomic nonlinearities amplify the impact of large aggregate shocks. Copyright 1997 by American Economic Association."] ["We analyze market impediments to the process of structural adjustment. We focus on incomplete-contract inefficiencies in the transactions between workers and firms that render the quasi-rents from 'specific' investment appropriable. During adjustment, the result is a depressed rate of creation of the new productive structure and excessive destruction of the old one, leading to an employment crisis. Moreover, appropriability weakens the incentives for extensive restructuring and results in a 'sclerotic' productive structure. An adequate managed- adjustment program combines vigorous creation incentives in the expanding sector with measures to support employment in the contracting one. In contrast, the common prescription of gradualism does not act as an effective 'synchronizer' of creation and destruction, for it can only reduce destruction by also reducing an already depressed creation rate.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["When factors enter into joint-production, they typically develop a degree of specificity with respect to each other. It is well known that, when combined with contracting difficulties, specificity gives rise to a Williamsonian 'Fundamental Transformation' from an ex-ante competitive relationship to an ex-post bilateral monopoly. The macroeconomic consequences of widespread specificity are far-reaching. Specificity results in misallocation, underutilization, and unemployment of the economy's productive factors; it hampers growth by depressing the incentives to replace what is outdated and to fully utilize the economy's resources; it disrupts macroeconomic adjustment by inducing a wedge between timid creation and excessive destruction of the old system; and it exacerbates downturns by `elastifying' the cyclical response of inelastic factors.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [" The authors analyze the timing, pace, and efficiency of ongoing job reallocation that results from product and process innovation. There are strong reasons why an efficient economy ought to concentrate both job creation and destruction during recessions, when the opportunity cost of reallocation is lowest. Incomplete contracting between labor and capital can disrupt this synchronized pattern and decouple creation and destruction. Transactional difficulties also lead to technological 'sclerosis,' characterized by excessively slow renovation. Government incentives to production may alleviate high unemployment but exacerbate sclerosis. In contrast, creation incentives increase the pace of reallocation. An optimal combination of both policies restores economic efficiency. Copyright 1996, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] [' The authors study the effects of industrywide and idiosyncratic uncertainty on the entry of firms, total investment, and prices in a competitive industry with irreversible investment. They determine entry decisions and the resulting industry equilibrium and its characteristics, emphasizing effects of different sources of uncertainty. The authors stress how irreversibility affects the equilibrium distribution of prices, which in turn affects entry. Finally, they use four-digit U.S. manufacturing data to measure the extent of uncertainty and gauge its importance for investment. The authors find that a doubling of industrywide uncertainty raises the required rate of return on new capital by about 20 percent. Copyright 1996 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] [' The simple permanent-income model provides a good description of the medium-long run behavior of aggregate non-durables consumption, but fails to describe its short run behavior. In this paper I, present a non-representative agent model with near-rational macroeconomic units a la Akerlof-Yellen that simultaneously explains the observed excess smoothness of consumption to wealth innovations and the excess sensitivity of consumption to lagged income changes. This models also explains conditional asymmetries found in the data: in good times, consumers respond more promptly to positive than negative wealth shocks; while the opposite is true in bad times. In spite of the presence of large non-diversifiable idiosyncratic uncertainty, the estimated dollar equivalent utility cost of the macroeconomic near-rational strategy required to explain the aggregate facts is only about 0.037 percent of consumption per year, where [gamma] is the coefficient of relative risk aversion. Copyright 1995 by Ohio State University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The authors investigate industry response to cyclical variations in demand. Production units that embody the newest process and product innovations are continuously being created and outdated units are being destroyed. Although outdated units are the most likely to turn unprofitable and be scrapped in a recession, they can be 'insulated' from the fall in demand by a reduction in creation. The structure of adjustment costs plays a determinant role in the responsiveness of those two margins. The calibrated model matches the relative volatilities of the observed manufacturing job creation and destruction series, and their asymmetries over the cycle. Copyright 1994 by American Economic Association."] [" The response of most stock variables (e.g., capital, housing, consumer durables, and prices) to exogenous impulses involves a dynamic-or 'short-run' - reaction, and a target - or 'long-run' - reaction. The difference between these two is typically attributed to some form of adjustment cost. In this paper I argue that the small sample problems of cointegrating procedures used to estimate the ' long'-run component are particularly severe when adjustment costs are important. More precisely, elasticity estimates will tend to be biased downward. I illustrate the empirical relevance of this by showing that the target elasticity of capital with respect to its cost is - severely downward biased when estimated with conventional OLS cointegration procedures. Once this is corrected, the elasticity of the U.S. capital-output ratio to the cost of capital is found to be large and close to (minus) one. Copyright 1994 by MIT Press."] [' Investment is often irreversible: once installed, capital has little or no value unless used in production. This paper proposes and solves a model of sequential irreversible investment and characterizes the aggregate implications of macroeconomic irreversibility and idiosyncratic uncertainty. If a large amount of idiosyncratic uncertainty is allowed for, the distributional dynamics induced by the nonlinear character of irreversible investment policies are capable of smoothing the dynamics of aggregate investment (relative to those of its forcing processes) to the extent required by U.S. data. Copyright 1994 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] [" The authors study positive and normative aspects of steady-state equilibrium in a market where firms of endogenous size experience idiosyncratic shocks and undergo a costly search process to hire workers. The model highlights interactions between job-security provisions and sectoral shocks in determining the natural rate of unemployment, the allocation of labor, and the extent of labor hoarding, and rationalizes cross-sectional asymmetries of gross employment flows at the firm level. In the authors' model, where productivity and search costs are dynamically heterogeneous across firms, decentralized wage bargains imply important cross-sectional inefficiencies, which shadow the static search inefficiencies. Copyright 1994 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited."] [' The basic implications of the frictionless permanent income hypothesis for durable goods purchases are strongly rejected by the data. At the aggregate level there is too much inertia. At the macroeconomic level purchases are too infrequent and lumpy. In principle these rejections can be simultaneously rationalized by the presence of fixed costs of adjustment at the microeconomic level. This article provides a simplified overview of recent developments attempting to formalize and measure the implications of models of fixed cost of adjustment for microeconomic and especially, aggregate behavior of expenditure on durable goods. It contends that these efforts have paid off in terms of methodological and empirical improvements. Copyright 1994 by Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" In this paper, the authors study the dynamic behavior of a menu-cost economy where firms are heterogeneous. In this contex t, they generalize the Caplin and Spulber (1987) monetary-neutrality result; show that uniqueness of equilibria depends on the degree of dispersion of firms' positions in their price cycle; characterize the path of output outside the steady state and show that as strateg ic complementarities become more important, expansions become longer an d smoother than contractions; and show that the potential impact of monetary shocks increases in the distance of the economy from its steady state but that an uninformed policymaker will have no effect on output on average. Copyright 1993 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited."] ['This paper is an attempt to enrich the characterization of the sluggish behavior of the aggregate price level. Our contribution to this vast literature is to explicitly consider microeconomic heterogeneity and its interaction with nonlinear microeconomic price adjustment policies. The model we propose outperforms the constant-probability-of-adjustment/partial- adjustment model in describing the path of postwar U.S. inflation. Using only aggregate data, we infer that the probability that a firm adjusts its price depends on the sign and the magnitude of the deviation of the price from its target level. At the aggregate level we find that the aggregate price responds less to negative shocks than to positive shocks, that the size of this asymmetry increases with the size of the shock, and that the number of firms changing their prices - and therefore the flexibility of the price level to aggregate shocks - varies endogenously over time in response to changes in economic conditions.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' The basic premise of this paper is that understanding aggregate dynamics requires considering that agents are heterogeneous and that they do not adjust continuously to the shocks they perceive. The authors provide a general characterization of lumpy behavior at the microeconomic level in terms of an adjustment-hazard function, which relates the probability that a unit adjusts to the deviation of its state variable from its moving target. They characterize rich, cross-sectionally dependent aggregate dynamics generated by nonconstant hazards. The authors present an example based on U. S. manufacturing employment and job flows, and find that increasing-hazard models outperform constant-hazard-partial-adjustment models in describing aggregate employment dynamics. Copyright 1993, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [' Aggregate expenditure on durables responds only slowly to wealth and other aggregate innovations. In this paper, the author develops new results on the problem of dynamic aggregation of stochastically heterogeneous units, which help to characterize the connection between microeconomic intermittent behavior and aggregate dynamics. Using these results and splitting postwar U.S. aggregate durable purchases into different subcategories and time periods, the author provides further support for the view that lumpy microeconomi c purchases play an important role in explaining the time-series behavior of aggregate expenditure on durable goods. Copyright 1993 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Recent contributions emphasize that the presence of exchange-rate target zones has important effects on the within-band behavior of exchange rates when agents are forward-looking. The authors find that the implications of available models are inconsistent with European exchange-rate data, and they suggest that the frequent realignments occurring in the period they consider may be responsible for this. They construct a model in which the likelihood of a realignment in the near future increases as the exchange rate approaches the limits of its fluctuation band and show that its implications are broadly consistent with the evidence. Copyright 1992 by American Economic Association.'] [' The representative-agent framework has endowed macroeconomists with powerful microeconomic tools. Unfortunately, it has also blurred the distinction between statements that are valid at the individual level and those that apply to the aggregate. In this paper, the author argues that probability theory puts strong restrictions on the joint behavior of a large number of units that are less than fully synchronized. Many fallacies arise from disregarding these restrictions. For example, asymmetric factor adjustment costs at the firm level need not imply asymmetric responses of aggregate employment flows to positive and negative shocks. Copyright 1992 by American Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper argues that precautionary savings due to uninsurable earnings uncertainty are likely to be an important source of aggregate wealth accumulation. The stylized model presented in this paper can easily generate levels of wealth above 60 percent of the observed net wealth in the United States, net of conventional life-cycle savings. Copyright 1991 by American Economic Association.'] [" In this paper, the authors provide a framework to study the aggregate dynamic behavior of an economy where individual units follow (S, s) policies and are subject to aggregate and idiosyncratic shocks. They characterize structural and stochastic heterogeneities that ensure convergence of the economy's aggregate to that of its (stochastic) frictionless counterpart, determine the speed at which convergence takes place, and describe the transitional dynamics of this economy. They study the evolution of the economy's aggregate and the evolution of the difference between this aggregate and that of the difference between this aggregate and that of an economy without microeconomic friction, where the latter pertains to a situation where individual units adjust with no delay to all shocks. Copyright 1991 by The Econometric Society."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' For more than a half a decade, the fact that expenditure on durables can be well approximated by a random walk has remained a hidden puzzle, challenging almost any theory in which agents smooth the use of their wealth. This paper shows that once a nonparsimonious approach is used, or lower frequencies of the data are examined, the fact itself disappears; changes in expenditures on durables reveal a degree of reversion consistent with the permanent income hypothesis, although this reversion occurs at a rate significantly slower than what is suggested by a frictionless permanent income hypothesis model. Copyright 1990, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In this paper we develop a simple general equilibrium model of the current account net of factor services. The model takes explicitly into account the relation between the real exchange rate, the trade balance, output and expenditures. The model is estima']