 ['I analyze monetary policy with interest on reserves and a large balance sheet. I show that conventional theories do not determine inflation in this regime, so I base the analysis on the fiscal theory of the price level. I find that monetary policy can peg the nominal rate, and determine expected inflation. With sticky prices, monetary policy can also affect real interest rates and output, though higher interest rates raise output and then inflation. The conventional sign requires a coordinated fiscal\xe2\x80\x93monetary policy contraction. I show how conventional new-Keynesian models also imply strong monetary\xe2\x80\x93fiscal policy coordination to obtain the usual signs. I address theoretical controversies. A concluding section places our current regime in a broader historical context, and opines on how optimal fiscal and monetary policy will evolve in the new regime.'] [' type="main"&gt;  Mean-variance portfolio theory can apply to streams of payoffs such as dividends following an initial investment. This description is useful when returns are not independent over time and investors have nonmarketed income. Investors hedge their outside income streams. Then, their optimal payoff is split between an indexed perpetuity\xe2\x80\x94the risk-free payoff\xe2\x80\x94and a long-run mean-variance efficient payoff. \xe2\x80\x9cLong-run\xe2\x80\x9d moments sum over time as well as states of nature. In equilibrium, long-run expected returns vary with long-run market betas and outside-income betas. State-variable hedges do not appear.'] ['I survey the nature of costs and benefits of financial regulation, both macroregulation designed to stop crises and microregulation of products, markets, and institutions. The nature of financial regulatory costs and benefits poses a great challenge for formalized analysis. Health-and-safety or environmental regulation focuses on simple actions, like releasing a pollutant. The costs and benefits of financial regulation focus on the behavioral, market, general equilibrium, and political reactions. I offer some suggestions on the structure of a cost-benefit process that recognizes the nature of financial regulation costs and benefits, lying between pure conceptual cost-benefit analysis and the rigid legal structure currently envisioned.'] ['It\'s fun to pass judgment on waste, size, usefulness, complexity, and excessive compensation. But as economists, we have an analytical structure for thinking about these questions. "I don\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x84\xa2t understand it" doesn\'t mean "it\'s bad," or "regulation will improve it." That attitude pervades policy analysis in general and financial regulation in particular, and economists do the world a disservice if we echo it. I will not offer a competing black box [to explain the size of the finance industry]. I don\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x84\xa2t claim to estimate the socially optimal "size of finance" at, say, 8.267 percent of GDP. It\'s just the wrong question. Hayek and the failure of planning should teach us a little modesty: Pronouncing on socially optimal industry size is a waste of time. Is the finance industry functioning well? Are there identifiable market or government distortions? Will proposed regulations help or make matters worse? These are useful questions.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['I translate familiar concepts of discrete-time time series to contnuoustime equivalent. I cover lag operators, ARMA models, the relation between levels and differences, integration and cointegration, and the Hansen\xe2\x80\x93Sargent prediction formulas.'] ['I use the valuation equation of government debt to understand fiscal and monetary policy in and following the great recession of 2008-2009. I also examine policy alternatives to avoid deflation, and how fiscal pressures might lead to inflation. I conclude that the central bank may be almost powerless to avoid deflation or inflation; that an eventual fiscal inflation can come well before large deficits or monetization are realized, and that it is likely to come with stagnation rather than a boom.'] ['The new-Keynesian, Taylor rule theory of inflation determination relies on explosive dynamics. By raising interest rates in response to inflation, the Fed induces ever-larger inflation, unless inflation jumps to one particular value on each date. However, economics does not rule out explosive inflation, so inflation remains indeterminate. Attempts to fix this problem assume that the government will choose to blow up the economy if alternative equilibria emerge, by following policies we usually consider impossible. The Taylor rule is not identified without unrealistic assumptions. Thus, Taylor rule regressions do not show that the Fed moved from \xe2\x80\x9cpassive\xe2\x80\x9d to \xe2\x80\x9cactive\xe2\x80\x9d policy in 1980.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' In these excerpts from "The Squam Lake Report", fifteen distinguished economists analyze where the global financial system failed, and how such failures might be prevented (or at least their damage better contained) in the future. Although there were many contributing factors to the crisis-including "agency" problems throughout the financial system and a bankruptcy code poorly suited for reorganizing financial firms-at the core of the problem is a potential conflict between the risk-taking proclivity of financial institutions and the interests of the economy at large that must be managed at least in part through more effective regulation. "The Squam Lake Report" provides a nonpartisan plan to transform the regulation of financial markets in ways designed to limit systemic risk while preserving-to the extent possible and prudent-the economies of scale and scope that justify the existence of today\'s large financial institutions. Copyright Copyright (c) 2010 Morgan Stanley.'] ['McCallum (2009) argues that "learnability" can save new-Keynesian models from indeterminacies. He claims the unique bounded equilibrium is learnable, and the explosive equilibria are not. However, he assumes that agents can directly observe the monetary policy shock. Reversing this assumption, I find the opposite: the bounded equilibrium is not learnable and the unbounded equilibria are learnable. More generally, I argue that a threat by the Fed to move to an "unlearnable" equilibrium for all but one value of inflation is a poor foundation for choosing the bounded equilibrium of a new-Keynesian model.'] [' We solve a model with two i.i.d. Lucas trees. Although the corresponding one-tree model produces a constant price-dividend ratio and i.i.d. returns, the two-tree model produces interesting asset-pricing dynamics. Investors want to rebalance their portfolios after any change in value. Because the size of the trees is fixed, prices must adjust to offset this desire. As a result, expected returns, excess returns, and return volatility all vary through time. Returns display serial correlation and are predictable from price-dividend ratios. Return volatility differs from cash-flow volatility, and return shocks can occur without news about cash flows. The Author 2007. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Society for Financial Studies. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org, Oxford University Press.'] [' If returns are not predictable, dividend growth must be predictable, to generate the observed variation in divided yields. I find that the absence of dividend growth predictability gives stronger evidence than does the presence of return predictability. Long-horizon return forecasts give the same strong evidence. These tests exploit the negative correlation of return forecasts with dividend-yield autocorrelation across samples, together with sensible upper bounds on dividend-yield autocorrelation, to deliver more powerful statistics. I reconcile my findings with the literature that finds poor power in long-horizon return forecasts, and with the literature that notes the poor out-of-sample R-super-2 of return-forecasting regressions. The Author 2007. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Society for Financial Studies. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org, Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Prediction is interesting for a variety of reasons. It is one of the few rationalizations for time-series to be a subject of its own, divorced from economics. Atheoretical forecasts of time series are often useful. The pattern of forecasts is also, like the autocorrelation function, an interesting characterization of the behavior of a time series.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The author surveys work on the intersection between macroeconomics and finance. The challenge is to find the right measure of "bad times," rises in the marginal value of wealth, so that we can understand high average returns or low prices as compensation for assets\' tendency to pay off poorly in "bad times." The author surveys the literature, covering the time-series and cross-sectional facts, the equity premium, consumption-based models, general equilibrium models, and labor income/idiosyncratic risk approaches.'] ['We study time variation in expected excess bond returns. We run regressions of one-year excess returns on initial forward rates. We find that a single factor, a single tent-shaped linear combination of forward rates, predicts excess returns on one- to five-year maturity bonds with R2 up to 0.44. The return-forecasting factor is countercyclical and forecasts stock returns. An important component of the return-forecasting factor is unrelated to the level, slope, and curvature movements described by most term structure models. We document that measurement errors do not affect our central results.'] ['This paper measures the mean, standard deviation, alpha and beta of venture capital investments, using a maximum likelihood estimate that corrects for selection bias. Since firms go public when they have achieved a good return, estimates that do not correct for selection bias are optimistic. The selection bias correction neatly accounts for log returns. Without a selection bias correction, I find a mean log return of about 100% and a log CAPM intercept of about 90%. With the selection bias correction, I find a mean log return of about 7% with a -2% intercept. However, returns are very volatile, with standard deviation near 100%. Therefore, arithmetic average returns and intercepts are much higher than geometric averages. The selection bias correction attenuates but does not eliminate high arithmetic average returns. Without a selection bias correction, I find an arithmetic average return of around 700% and a CAPM alpha of nearly 500%. With the selection bias correction, I find arithmetic average returns of about 53% and CAPM alpha of about 45%. Second, third, and fourth rounds of financing are less risky. They have progressively lower volatility, and therefore lower arithmetic average returns. The betas of successive rounds also decline dramatically from near 1 for the first round to near zero for fourth rounds. The maximum likelihood estimate matches many features of the data, in particular the pattern of IPO and exit as a function of project age, and the fact that return distributions are stable across horizons.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We measure monetary policy shocks as changes in the Fed funds target rate that surprise bond markets in daily data. These shock series avoid the omitted variable, time-varying parameter, and orthogonalization problem of monthly VARs, and do not impose the expectations hypothesis. We find surprisingly large and persistent responses of bond yields to these shocks. 10 year rates rise as much as 8/10 of a percent to a one percent target shock. The usual view that monetary policy only temporarily raises long term rates and influences inflation would lead one to predict a negative long rate response.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The fiscal theory says that the price level is determined by the ratio of nominal debt to the present value of real primary surpluses. The maturity structure of the debt matters in this theory. For example, it determines whether news of future deficits implies current inflation or future inflation, and the long-term debt allows the government to offset surplus shocks by ex-post devaluation. In the optimal policy, the government uses fiscal operations to smooth cyclical fiscal shocks. Since policy movements react to events rather than cause them, the optimal policy produces time series that are similar to U.S. time series.'] [' We show that the external habit-formation model economy of Campbell and Cochrane (1999) can explain why the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) and its extensions are betterapproximate asset pricing models than is the standard onsumption-based model. The model economy produces time-varying expected eturns, tracked by the dividend-price ratio. Portfolio-based models capture some of this variation in state variables, which a state-independent function of consumption cannot capture. Therefore, though the consumption-based model and CAPM are both perfect "conditional" asset pricing models, the portfolio-based models are better approximate "unconditional" asset pricing models. Copyright The American Finance Association 2000.'] ["It is often useful to price assets and other random payoffs by reference to other observed prices rather than construct full-fledged economic asset pricing models. This approach breaks down if one cannot find a perfect replicating portfolio. We impose weak economic restrictions to derive usefully tight bounds on asset prices in this situation. The bounds basically rule out high Sharpe ratios - `good deals' - as well as arbitrage opportunities. We present the method of calculation, we extend it to a multiperiod context by finding a recursive solution, and we apply it to option pricing examples including the Black-Scholes setup with infrequent trading, and a model with stochastic stock volatility and a varying riskfree rate.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['How does traditional portfolio theory adapt to the new facts? The old "two-fund" theorem becomes a "many-fund" theorem; some investors can improve returns by investing in portfolio strategies that let them take on nonmarket sources of risk; and other investors can shed nonmarket risks in the same way. Investors can, if willing to take on risks, improve returns by some modest market timing. However, the average investor must always hold the market, so only investors who are different from average can benefit from holding new and unusual portfolios'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In the last 15 years, the cherished "random walk" view that stock returns are unpredictable, the "CAPM" view the market is the only benchmark and market exposure the only source of returns, and the "expectations hypothesis" relating interest rates of various maturities and countries have all been abandoned. This article surveys this revolution in finance, explaining and integrating the new view of the facts.'] ['What are the relative effects of anticipated vs. unanticipated monetary policy? I examine the effect of this identifying assumption on VAR estimates of the output response to money, assuming that anticipated monetary policy can have some effect on output results in much shorter and smaller output response estimates\xc3\xbeestimates closer to the predictions of most monetary models.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The author surveys the statistical evidence on average stock return and the economic theories that try to explain it. The statistical evidence suggests a period of low returns, followed by a slow reversion to a high long-term average. However, that evidence is quite uncertain. Standard economics predicts tiny stock returns. The author surveys new economic models that predict high returns, but by fundamentally changing the description of stock market risk. He warns that a low forecast for stock returns does not mean one should sell.'] [" The author examines a factor pricing model for stock returns. The factors are returns on physical investment, inferred from investment data via a production function. The author examines the model's ability to explain variation in expected returns across assets and over time. The model is not rejected. It performs about as well as the CAPM and the Chen, Roll, and Ross (1986) factor model, and it performs substantially better than a simple consumption-based model. The author also provides an easy technique for estimating and testing dynamic, conditional asset pricing models--one simply includes factors and returns scaled by instruments in an unconditional estimate--and for comparing such models. Copyright 1996 by University of Chicago Press."] [' Currently available health insurance contracts often fail to insure long-term illnesses: sick people can suffer large increases in premiums or denial of coverage. The author describes insurance contracts that solve this problem. Their key feature is a severance payment. A person who is diagnosed with a long-term illness and whose premiums are increased receives a lump sum equal to the increased present value of premiums. This lump sum allows him or her to pay the higher premiums required by any insurer. People are not tied to a particular insurer and they can pay the same premium as in standard contracts. Copyright 1995 by University of Chicago Press.'] [" This paper uses two-variable auto regressions to characterize transitory components in GNP and stock prices. Shocks to GNP holding consumption constant are almost entirely transitory and account for large fractions of the variance of GNP growth. If consumption does not change, consumers must think that any GNP change is transitory. The facts that the consumption/GNP ratio forecasts GNP growth and that consumption is nearly a random walk drive this result. An implication is that consumption provides a good estimate of the 'trend' in GNP. Prices and dividends behave similarly: shocks to prices, holding dividends constant, are almost entirely transitory. Copyright 1994, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] ["What are the shocks that drive economic fluctuations? I examine technology and money shocks in some detail, and briefly review the evidence on oil price and credit shocks. I conclude that none of these popular candidates accounts for the bulk of economic fluctuations. I then examine whether 'consumption shocks,' news that agents see but we do not, can account for fluctuations. I find that it may be possible to construct models with this feature, though it is more difficult than is commonly realized. If this view is correct, we will forever remain ignorant of the fundamental causes of economic fluctuations.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' The author reports a bound on the variance of price-dividend ratios and a decomposition of their variance into terms that reflect changes in dividend growth and discount rates. The specification is not restrictive. The test statistics do not require construction of ex post present values; instead, they are restrictions on means, variances, and covariances of price-dividend ratios, dividend growth, and discount rates. He considers implications for the mean price-dividend ratio, and he evaluates whether a low mean discount rate can rationalize the mean and variance of price-dividend ratios. The results do not indicate any striking rejections of present-value models. However, the bulk of the variance of price-dividend ratios must be accounted for by changing forecasts of discount rates, and discount rates must possess some unusual characteristics. Article published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Financial Studies in its journal, The Review of Financial Studies.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper describes a production-based asset pricing model. It is analogous to the standard consumption-based model, but it uses producers and production functions in the place of consumers and utility functions. The model ties stock returns to investment returns (marginal rates of transformation), which are inferred from investment data via a production function. The production-based model is used to examine forecasts of stock returns by business-cycle related variables and the association of stock returns with subsequent economic activity. Copyright 1991 by American Finance Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This essay examines what volatility tests tell us about the data and what implications we should derive from them. It argues that volatility tests do not tell us that "prices are too volatile", implying that "markets are inefficient", but rather that "(discounted) returns are forecastable", implying that "current discount rate models leave a residual". It also argues that the discount rate residuals documented by volatility tests (and equivalent return forecasting regressions or Euler equation tests) are suggestive of rational, business cycle-induced discount rate movements, rather than "fads" or other inefficiencies.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Are consumers effectively insured against idiosyncratic shocks to income or wealth, either by formal institutions such as charities, private insurance, and government programs or by informal mechanisms such as gifts and "loans" from relatives, friends, and neighbors? Under full insurance, consumption growth should be cross-sectionally independent of idiosyncratic variables that are exogenous to consumers. This proposition is tested by cross-sectional regressions of consumption growth on a variety of exogenous variables. Full insurance is rejected for long illness and involuntary job loss, but not for spells of unemployment, loss of work due to strike, and an involuntary move. Copyright 1991 by University of Chicago Press.'] [' Suppose a consumer sets consumption equal to income each period, rather than following the optimal permanent income decision rule. How much utility does he lose? This paper finds that the answer is typically less than 10 cents-$1 per quarter in environments specified by popular tests on aggregate data. It includes calculations of the costs of excess sensitivity and excess smoothness to income and interest rate changes and the costs of ignoring information. It concludes that the theory does not make predictions for aggregate tests that are robust to small costs, such as information or transactions. Copyright 1989 by American Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper presents a measure of the persistence of fluctuations in gross national product (GNP) based on the variance of its long differences. That measure finds little long-term persistence in GNP. Previous research on this question found a great deal of persistence in GNP, suggesting models such as a random walk. A reconciliation of this paper's results with previous research shows that conventional criteria for time-series model building can produce misleading estimates of persistence. Copyright 1988 by University of Chicago Press."]