 ['The objective of the paper is to explore the saving and consumption responses of a representative household to a range of policy interventions such as changes in taxes and pension settings. To achieve this, it develops a two-period life-cycle model. The representative household maximises lifetime utility through its choice of optimal levels of consumption, housing and saving. A key feature of the approach is modelling the consumption of housing services as a separate good in retirement along with the implications for saving. Importantly, the model incorporates a government budget constraint involving a pay-as-you-go universal pension. In addition, the model allows for a compulsory private retirement savings scheme. Particular attention in the simulations is given to the potential impact on household saving rates of a range of policy changes. Typically the effect on saving rates is modest. In most instances, it would take very substantial changes in existing policy settings to induce significant increases in household saving rates.'] [' This paper considers the extent to which the standard argument, that the disproportionate excess burden of taxation suggests the use of tax smoothing in the face of future cost increases, is modified by uncertainty regarding the future. The role of uncertainty and risk aversion is examined using several highly simplified models involving a possible future contingency requiring an increase in tax-financed expenditure.'] [' This paper investigates the implications of population ageing and changes in labour force participation rates for projections of revenue obtained from personal income taxation and a consumption tax (in the form of a broad-based goods and services tax). A projection model is presented, involving changing age-income profiles over time for males and females. The model is estimated and applied to New Zealand over the period 2011-2062.'] [" This paper discusses the challenge for fiscal sustainability in New Zealand in the face of the demographic transition involving population ageing and the 'ageing of the aged'. The need for rational policy analysis is stressed in examining a wide range of policy responses and trade-offs, and the ingredients of successful policy analysis are discussed. Contributions to the Special Issue are described and placed in context."] [' This paper presents stochastic projections for 13 categories of social spending in New Zealand over the next 50 years. These projections are based on detailed demographic estimates covering fertility, migration and mortality disaggregated by single year of age and gender. Distributional parameters are incorporated for all of the major variables, and are used to build up probabilistic projections for social expenditure as a share of gross domestic product using simulation methods. Emphasis is placed on the considerable uncertainty involved in projecting future expenditure levels.'] [' This paper investigates the choice of the composition of government expenditure using both positive and normative approaches. The former involves aggregation over selfish voters (simple majority voting and stochastic voting are examined), while the latter involves the choice by a single disinterested individual (considered to maximise a social welfare function). The approach allows direct comparisons of the choice mechanisms. The structures examined include a transfer payment combined with a pure public good, and a transfer payment with tax-financed education. Explicit solutions are obtained for the choice of expenditure components, and these are shown to depend on the proportional difference between the arithmetic mean and another measure of location of incomes, where the latter depends on the choice mechanism. In each case the expenditure composition depends on an inequality measure defined in terms of the proportional difference between a measure of location of the income distribution and the arithmetic mean, where the location measure depends on the decision mechanism.'] [' This paper examines the extent to which projected aggregate tax revenue changes, in association with population ageing over the next 50 years, can be expected to finance expected increases in social welfare expenditures. Projections from two separate models, dealing with social expenditures and income tax and GST revenue, are used. The results suggest that the modest required increase in the overall average tax rate projected over the next 50 years can be achieved automatically by adjusting income tax thresholds using an index of prices rather than wages. Based on evidence about the New Zealand tax system over the last 50 years, comparisons of average and marginal tax rates suggest that such an increase may be feasible and affordable. The paper discusses the range of considerations involved in deciding if this automatic increase in the aggregate average tax rate, via real fiscal drag of personal income taxes, is desirable compared with alternative fiscal policy changes.'] [' This paper considers the use of alternative welfare metrics in evaluations of income inequality in a multi-period context. Using Norwegian longitudinal income data, it is found, as in many studies, that inequality is lower when each individual\xe2\x80\x99s annual average income is used as welfare metric, compared with the use of a single-period accounting framework. However, this result does not necessarily hold when aversion to income fluctuations is introduced. Furthermore, when actual incomes are replaced by expected incomes (conditional on an initial period), using a model of income dynamics, higher values of inequality over longer periods are typically found, although comparisons depend on inequality and variability aversion parameters. The results are strongly influenced by the observed high degree of systematic regression towards the (geometric) mean, combined with a large extent of individual unexpected effects.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper shows how income changes in response to changes in marginal income tax rates (MTRs) translate into tax revenue changes for the familiar multi-step income tax function used in many countries. Previous literature has focused on the relatively straightforward case of a proportional income tax or the top MTR only. The paper examines revenue responses at both the individual and aggregate levels, and it is shown that for individual MTRs within a multi-rate regime, simple expressions for tax revenue responsiveness can be derived that nevertheless capture the various behavioural and structural responses to income tax reforms involving changes to multiple rates and thresholds. Illustrations are provided using changes to the New Zealand income tax structure in the 2010 budget. This reduced all marginal tax rates while leaving income thresholds unchanged. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013'] [' Extensive research has shown that few robust results regarding the optimal tax structure are available. Moreover, the stylized models used in optimal tax analyses are not appropriate for practical policy advice. This paper proposes a method of examining income tax reforms designed to move towards an optimal structure. It uses a behavioural microsimulation model in which the full extent of population heterogeneity is represented along with all the details of highly complex tax and transfer systems. The approach is illustrated using the Australian microsimulation model MITTS. The results show that welfare changes for the Australian income tax structure are not symmetric with respect to increases and decreases in tax rates. In addition, the extent of inequality aversion was found to play a much larger role in the determination of the direction of tax rate changes than the form of the welfare metric or the specification of adult equivalence scales. Copyright 2012 Oxford University Press 2011 All rights reserved, Oxford University Press.'] ['This paper reports estimates of the elasticity of taxable income with respect to the net-of-tax rate for New Zealand taxpayers. The elasticity of taxable income was estimated to be substantially higher for the highest income groups. Generally it was higher for men than for women. Changes in the timing of income flows for the higher income recipients were found to be an important response to the announcement of a new higher-rate bracket. The marginal welfare costs of personal income taxation were consistent across years, being relatively small for all but the higher tax brackets. For the top marginal rate bracket of 39 per cent, the welfare cost of raising an extra dollar of tax revenue was estimated to be well in excess of a dollar. Furthermore, for the top bracket the marginal tax rate was often found to exceed the revenue-maximising tax rate.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper derives analytical expressions for aggregate personal income tax revenue obtained from a multi-schedular and multi-regional personal income tax system, with revenue divided among central and regional governments. Aggregate income tax revenue is expressed as a function of characteristics of the distribution of taxable income, making it possible to identify the sources of revenue differences among regions. The approach is applied to the tax structure in Spain, and the effects of income distribution differences among the Spanish regions are examined.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper explores the use of a loglinear tax and transfer function, displaying increasing marginal and average tax rates along with a means-tested transfer payment. The two parameters are a break-even income threshold, where the average tax rate is zero, and a tax parameter equivalent to the marginal tax rate at the break-even income level. When combined with Cobb-Douglas utility, the resulting labour supply is fixed and independent of the individual\xe2\x80\x99s wage rate. For an additive social welfare function involving the sum of logarithms of (indirect) utilities, a convenient expression is available for the optimal tax rate in a framework in which individuals differ only in the wage rate they face. It is shown that a unique optimal rate exists, which depends on the preference for consumption and the inequality of wage rates. This coincides with the majority voting equilibrium rate. As with the linear tax function, higher inequality is associated with choice of a higher tax rate.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper presents a method of predicting individuals\xe2\x80\x99 welfare changes (compensating and equivalent variations) arising from a tax or social security policy change in the context of behavioural microsimulation modelling, where individuals can choose between a limited number of discrete hours of work. The method allows fully for the nonlinearity of the budget constraint facing each individual, the probabilistic nature of the labour supply model and the presence of unobserved heterogeneity in the estimation of preference functions. Yet it is relatively straightforward to implement. An advantage of welfare measures, compared with changes in net incomes, is that they take into account the value of leisure and home production. The method is applied to a hypothetical income tax policy change in Australia.'] ['This paper examines the way in which the asymmetric treatment of losses within corporate tax codes can be expected to affect behavioural responses to changes in tax rates. The paper introduces the concept of an equivalent tax function, raising the same present value of tax payments as the actual function, in which the effective rate on losses in any period, and thus the degree of asymmetry, is explicit. The influence on the elasticity of tax revenue with respect to the tax rate of this effective rate is then examined, where \xe2\x80\x98loss-shifting\xe2\x80\x99 occurs. Results suggest that estimates of the behavioural effect of changes in tax rates on tax revenues can be expected in general to be smaller in regimes that involve greater asymmetries in the tax treatement of losses. As losses vary over the economic cycle, asymmetric treatment also generates effects on tax revenues that are asymmetric (non-linear) between above-trend and below-trend parts of the cycle.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper examines the conditions under which a partial shift from a multi-step personal income tax structure towards a general consumption tax can be both revenue-neutral and distribution-neutral, in a cross-sectional context. In the absence of a tax-free-threshold, this can be achieved with a broad-based consumption tax, or one in which, at each income level, the proportion of taxed expenditure is independent of total expenditure. Such a change, involving a smaller percentage reduction in the higher marginal tax rates, is also shown to increase labour supply in a simple continuous-hours model.'] ['This paper considers behavioural responses of companies\xc2\xb4 declared profits to changes in profit tax rates. Using microsimulation modelling based on the UK corporate tax system, it argues that the cyclical volatility of firms\xc2\xb4 gross profits and off-setting deductions are potentially important but distinct determinants of the size of these behavioural responses. This arises both because deductions claimed are typically a relatively large fraction of declared gross profits and because of the endogenous relationships between various deductions and those profits. The endogeneity arises mainly from asymmetries in the tax treatment of losses, which generates an asymmetric cycle in the claiming of losses and capital allowances as profit off-sets. Microsimulation modelling shows that these aspects can be sizeable compared with recent estimates of firms\xc2\xb4 profit-shifting responses found in the empirical literature.'] [' "Direct tax structures are regularly revised and debates over changes are heated. Taxes affect the behaviour of individuals and families in ways which are hard to predict, but which impose constraints on governments trying to achieve their objectives. Attempts to help one group of individuals often have unintended consequences on other groups. Views about the role of a tax system vary substantially but, in debates, the basic value judgements which influence policy recommendations are seldom made explicit. This article attempts to clarify the main tensions involved in tax planning and to explain why consensus is unlikely ever to be achieved." Copyright (c)2010 The University of Melbourne, Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research.'] ['This paper examines the optimal allocation of tax revenue among a universal transfer payment, a pure public good and expenditure on education. Using a single-period framework, education expenditure raises the productivity of individuals via a human capital production function. The social welfare function is based on individuals\xe2\x80\x99 (indirect) utilities. Education creates a substantial fiscal spillover whereby the increase in human capital gives rise to higher labour earnings and thus higher income tax revenue, thereby allowing greater government expenditure on all items than would otherwise be possible. A higher inequality of exogenous ability levels is found to increase all types of expenditure, but only the transfer increases in relative terms. Higher inequality aversion leads to an increase in transfer payments in absolute and relative terms, at the expense of the other two components. However, there is little sensitivity to inequality aversion. An increase in the elasticity of the wage with respect to basic ability leads to lower education spending.'] ['This paper compares labour supply behaviour under a uniform education voucher system with one involving a means-tested scheme in which the voucher is subject to a taper or withdrawal rate as parental gross income increases. Particular attention is given to the implications of nonlinear budget constraints. Parents maximise a utility function which includes their consumption, leisure and the human capital of children.The human capital production function has inputs consisting of parental human capital and expenditure on education.'] ['This paper investigates, first, how allowance for subsistence activities, or home production, affects the standard results in models involving the majority choice of the tax rate in a flat tax \xe2\x80\x93 basic income scheme. The paper extends the analysis of home production to choices regarding the composition of government expenditure, in situations where there is a tax-financed pure public good in addition to a transfer payment, conditional on a given tax rate. The effect of home production is to reduce the transfer payment in each model, but the effect is small.'] ['This paper examines the choice of government expenditure on public goods and transfer payments, in the form of a pension, in an overlapping generations model. Government expenditure is tax-financed on a pay-asyou- go basis. A utilitarian judge chooses expenditures to maximize a social welfare function. The nonlinear solution is found to involve the ratio of a welfare-weighted average income, which depends on the inequality aversion of the judge, to arithmetic mean income. An approximation for this ratio is found which produces explicit solutions for the optimal composition. The result is used to obtain an indication of \xe2\x80\x98implicit\xe2\x80\x99 inequality aversion for a range of countries.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' "This article examines the redistributive effects of direct taxes and transfers in New Zealand. First, it reports summary measures of the income tax-and-transfer system using the NZ Household Economic Survey. Second, the article examines the characteristics of low-income NZ taxpayers. A decomposition by individual and household characteristics shows that different groups of low-income taxpayers can be affected quite differently by various aspects of the tax-and-transfer system. In particular, reforms involving tax-free zones do not appear to be well targeted to help those most in need." Copyright (c)2010 The University of Melbourne, Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research.'] ['This paper examines behavioural responses by companies to changes in profit taxation in their home country. The elasticity of tax revenue with respect to changes in the corporation tax rate are decomposed into a variety of responses. As well as distinguising real from profit-shifting responses, it is important to separate the responses of gross profits from those of deductions (such as claims for past or current losses) where these are endogenously related to gross profits declared at home. This endogeneous response can be expected to differ over the business cycle, which can be important for empirical estimates of aggregate behavioural responses especially, but not exclusively, during cyclical downturns. It is suggested that the revenue elasticity can be expected to be asymmetrical between periods of aboveand below-trend growth, arising from the asymmetric treatment of losses by the tax function.'] [" This paper considers the implications for personal income tax and Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenues of population ageing in New Zealand. It considers 'pure' ageing effects; that is, population size is held constant but its age distribution changes over the next 40 years. With age-earnings profiles having a peak in the 45-54 age range, and the expected average age of the population over the next 40 years transiting this age range, younger individuals with increasing incomes are expected to approximately counteract the declining incomes of older individuals. However, ageing is expected to increase the dependence of income tax and GST revenues on pension choices. Without changes in New Zealand Superannuation (NZS), its cost is expected approximately to double over the next 40 years, with most of this occurring over the next 20 years."] [" This paper examines the optimal ratio of transfer payments to expenditure on public goods, for a given income tax rate. The transfer payment is then determined by the government's budget constraint. The optimal ratio of transfers to public good expenditure per person is expressed as a function of the ratio of the median to the arithmetic mean wage, and of the tax rate. Reductions in the skewness of the wage rate distribution are associated with reductions in transfer payments relative to public goods expenditure, at a decreasing rate. Furthermore, increases in the tax rate, from relatively low levels, are associated with increases in the relative importance of transfer payments. But beyond a certain level, further tax rate increases are associated with a lower ratio of transfers to public goods, because of adverse incentive effects. Copyright 2010 The Authors. Journal compilation 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd&amp;sol;University of Adelaide and Flinders University."] ['This paper examines the built-in flexibility properties -- as measured by the elasticity of revenue with respect to profits -- of the UK corporation tax system. Emphasis is placed on determining some of the major influences on the extent to which total corporation tax revenue changes when profits change over the economic cycle. A microsimulation model, CorpSim, is constructed and used to obtain numerical results. In the model, corporations use group relief, capital allowances and losses in a tax-minimising manner. The growth of aggregate corporation tax revenue in practice in the UK appears to be highly volatile in relation to the growth of profits. High volatility in revenue elasticities is found to be especially associated with economic downturns. In mild economic downturns, corporation tax revenue elasticities may rise (because tax growth falls less than profit growth), but in more severe downturns, large but temporary decreases in revenue elasticities (and even negative elasticities) can be expected.'] [" This paper derives a convenient method of calculating an approximation to the optimal tax rate in a linear income tax structure. Individuals are assumed to have Cobb-Douglas preferences and the wage rate distribution is lognormal. First, the optimal tax rate is shown, for a general form of social welfare function, to be the smallest root of a quadratic equation involving a welfare-weighted average wage rate. Second, an approximation to this average is derived for an isoelastic social welfare function. This average depends on the degree of inequality aversion of the welfare function and the coefficient on consumption in individuals' utility functions. Calculations show that the method performs well in comparison with standard simulation methods of computing the optimal tax rate. Copyright 2009 The Author. Journal compilation 2009 Blackwell Publishing Ltd&amp;sol;University of Adelaide and Flinders University."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper examines the role of the tax-free income tax threshold in a complex tax and transfer system consisting of a range of taxes and benefits, each with their own taper rates and thresholds. Considering a tax and benefit system with benefit taper rates whereby some benefits are received by income groups other than those at the bottom of the distribution, it is suggested that a tax-free threshold is not a necessary requirement to achieve redistribution. Four alternative policy changes, each involving the elimination of the tax-free threshold in Australia and designed to achieve approximate revenue neutrality, were examined using the Melbourne Institute Tax and Transfer Simulator. A range of implications were examined, including labour supply responses to tax changes, and the effects of policy changes on inequality and social welfare. The results demonstrate that it is possible to eliminate the taxfree threshold under approximate overall revenue and distribution neutrality, but that it is impossible to improve labour supply incentives at the same time. In order to achieve improved incentives, either revenue or distribution neutrality has to be sacrificed.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper considers majority voting over the ratio of transfer payments to per capita expenditure on public goods. A model is constructed in which individuals vote for government expenditure on a public good, for a given income tax rate. Labour supply is endogenous. The equilibrium ratio of transfers to public good expenditure is a function of the ratio of median to mean wages and the tax rate. Cross-sectional regressions confirmed that reductions in the skewness of the wage rate distribution are associated with reductions in transfer payments relative to public goods expenditure, at a decreasing rate. Increases in the tax rate initially increase the importance of transfer payments but eventually tax rate increases lead to lower transfers.'] ['Observed changes in corporation tax revenues from year to year, which include the effects of changes in tax rates, deductions and compliance, appear to be highly volatile relative to profits, the tax base. This paper examines whether the \xe2\x80\x98built-in\xe2\x80\x99 fiscal drag properties of corporation tax can be expected to display similar properties. Simple, conceptual modelling demonstrates that the corporate tax revenue elasticity does indeed display this property in the presence of regular cyclical fluctuation in profit growth, suggesting that much of the observed volatility is inherent to the corporation tax system.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper examines the discounting of money values in social evaluations using a social time preference rate (defined as the sum of a pure time preference rate and the product of the elasticity of marginal valuation and a growth rate). It is shown that this procedure can give a different ranking of alternative streams compared with the direct use of the pure time preference rate to discount \xe2\x80\x98social welfare\xe2\x80\x99 in each period (where social welfare is a - usually isoelastic - function of money values).'] ['This paper provides an applied general equilibrium analysis of several alternative taxation regimes applying to private pensions. The analysis focuses on the implications of this and other pension tax regimes for intergenerational equity, national living standards, labour supply, saving and social welfare. The method of analysis is simulation of an open economy overlapping generations CGE model. The model is calibrated to Australia and is used to examine the decision, announced by the Australian Government in its 2006 Budget, to exempt from tax all superannuation (the Australian term for superannuation) benefits received by recipients over 60 years of age.'] ['This paper considers the choice of linear income tax rate in both majority voting and social welfare maximising contexts. Although the basic problem in each case - of finding the most preferred tax for the median voter and the welfare maximising tax for an independent judge or decision-maker - can be simply stated, it is usually not possible to obtain explicit solutions even for simple assumptions about preferences and population heterogeneity. The present paper instead gives special attention to a formulation of the required conditions in terms of easily interpreted magnitudes, the elasticity of average earnings with respect to the tax rate and a measure of inequality. The inequality measure takes the same basic form in each model, depending either on median earnings or a weighted average of earnings where the weights depend on value judgements regarding inequality aversion. The approach enables the comparative static effects of a range of parameter changes to be considered. The results are reinforced using numerical examples based on the constant elasticity of substitution utility function.'] [" This paper provides an analytical review of the evaluation of alternative time streams of consumption and the closely related concept of time preference. The potential sensitivity of comparisons, especially to the choice of time preference rate and elasticity of marginal valuation, is demonstrated. The nature of time preference, based on an axiomatic approach, is then discussed. The analysis of optimisation over time leads to the concept of the social time preference rate, and a difficulty with using this rate is highlighted. Approaches giving rise to declining discount rates over time are discussed, including alternative welfare functions and the role of uncertainty. This is followed by a critique of methods used to 'estimate' a time preference rate. Finally, complications introduced by non-income differences between individuals are examined. Emphasis is placed on the central role of value judgements. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2008 The Economic Society of Australia."] ["This paper examines the optimal path of consumption over time in the context of population ageing. Older age groups are considered to have relatively greater 'needs', resulting for example from additional health costs. These differences give rise to the concept of the 'equivalent number of persons', as distinct from the population size. Emphasis is given to the difference between a framework involving a representative agent and one in which plans are made by a social planner. The precise conditions under which consumption growth paths are the same under the representative agent and the social planner are established. This equivalence is found to hold only in the case where the social planner's value judgements are such that individuals are considered to be the appropriate unit of analysis. An alternative assumption, in which equivalent persons are regarded as the appropriate units, is found to give rise to a different optimal consumption path. Numerical examples demonstrate the relative orders of magnitude for a range of parameter values. The differences are found to be potentially important. The choice of appropriate consumption units - individuals or equivalent persons - is far from arbitrary since it involves possibly conflicting value judgements. This choice has implications for policies designed to influence the optimal saving rate, such as superannuation policy and the fiscal balance."] [' This paper investigates the effects on labour supply, consumption and savings of a change in the superannuation tax structure, involving the taxation of contributions to a fund, pre-retirement earnings of the fund, and the benefits received from the fund during retirement. The effects on lifetime plans of tax changes are investigated using a simple three-period model in which the final period is retirement. The effects of unanticipated changes, requiring revisions to plans, are examined. Although the partial effects of particular tax changes are unambiguous, the effects of allowing for a government budget constraint mean that it is difficult to predict a priori how labour supply is likely to be affected. However, private savings unambiguously fall. Copyright 2008 The Authors.'] ['This paper addresses the need for a measure of the uncertainty that is associated with the results calculated through tax policy behavioural microsimulation modelling. Deriving the analytical measure would be extremely complicated, therefore, a simulated approach is proposed which generates a pseudo sampling distribution of aggregate measures based on the sampling distribution of the estimated labour supply parameters. This approach, which is very computer intensive, is compared to a more time-efficient approach where the functional form of the sampling distribution is assumed to be normal. The results show that in many instances the results from the two approaches are quite similar. The exception is when aggregate measures for minor types of payments, involving relatively small groups of the population, are examined.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This article uses data from the Household, Income and Labour Dynamics in Australia (HILDA) Survey to examine the changing distribution of net worth with age. Even after controlling for age, the relationship between income and net worth is positive, except for the older age groups. Inequality falls as age increases. The income poor save in different forms compared with high income individuals of the same age cohort. Holdings of financial assets, especially equity investments and superannuation, are heavily concentrated in the hands of high income earners, while fixed income investments are favoured by the elderly for all income groups. Copyright 2007 The University of Melbourne, Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research.'] ["This paper is concerned with the use of social welfare functions in evaluating changes. In particular, it considers suggestions that welfare weights to be used in comparing the gains and losses of different individuals (or other appropriate units of analysis), and a social time preference rate for use in cost benefit evaluation, can be estimated either from consumers' behaviour or from the judgements implicit in tax policy. It is suggested that results are highly sensitive to the context and model specification assumed. More importantly, the argument that an estimated elasticity of marginal utility or time preference rate should be used in policy evaluations fails to recognise that fundamental value judgements are involved. Various estimates may be of interest, but they cannot be used by economists to impose value judgements. The main contribution economists can make is to examine the implications of adopting a range of alternative value judgements."] ['An important characteristic defining the threat of environmental crises is the uncertainty about their consequences for future welfare. Random processes governing ecosystem dynamics and adaptation to anthropogenic change are important sources of prevailing ecological uncertainty and contribute to the problem of how to balance economic development against natural resource conservation. The aim of this study is to examine optimal growth subject to non-linear dynamic environmental constraints. In a two-sector exogenous growth framework we model a stochastic environmental good, exhibiting uncertain ecological responses to environmental change, and describe the economic and environmental trade-offs that ensue for a risk-averse social planner. Allowing for ecological risk tends to slow economic growth if environmental impacts are assumed to increase exponentially as the rate of disturbance increases. Taken in isolation the effects of ecosystem resilience and ecological uncertainty on the rate of natural resource development are ambiguous and depend on normative parameters such as the social planner\xe2\x80\x99s attitude to risk and rate of time preference.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["When debating an existing or proposed indirect tax, particular emphasis is often given to the disproportional effect of the tax. This effect is intended to show how the welfare loss from the tax is distributed across households with various income levels. Typically, the disproportional effect is assessed using a tax-revenue-based measure that computes how the amount of tax paid, expressed as a fraction of household expenditure, varies as household expenditure increases. However, the amount of tax paid by a household does not always form a good measure of the welfare loss experienced by the household. Hence a more appropriate assessment of the disproportional effect of a tax is a welfare-based measure that computes the variation in the welfare loss (from the tax) as a fraction of household expenditure, as household expenditure increases. This paper shows that when the households' preferences, in respect to their choice of goods, are allowed to vary among households, tax revenues provide a poor measure of disproportionality, producing results that directly conflict with those produced from a welfarebased measure. The New Zealand indirect tax system is used to show that such cases of conflict are frequent, reinforcing the importance of using a welfare-based measure when assessing the disproportional effects of an indirect tax."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The aim of this paper is to give a short description of the nature of books and journals, their respective editors, and the difficult process and proprieties involved in publishing papers. It describes some of the main features of the publication process, so that readers may be in a better position to make judgements about published work and writers may be, to some extent at least, prepared to face the difficulties that inevitably lie in their path. Emphasis is given to the need to deal with rejections and the often substantial revisions requested by editors. While some of the features of publishing are common to all disciplines, this paper is specifically intended for economists.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" This paper investigates the use of sample reweighting, in a behavioural tax microsimulation model, to examine the implications for government taxes and expenditure of population ageing in Australia. First, a calibration approach to sample reweighting is described, producing new weights that achieve specified population totals for selected variables. Second, the performance of the Australian Bureau of Statistics' (ABS) weights provided with the 2000-2001 Survey of Income and Housing Cost (SIHC) was examined and it was found that reweighting does not improve the simulation outcomes for the 2001 situation, so the original ABS weights were retained for 2001. Third, the implications of changes in the age distribution of the population were examined, based on population projections to 2050. A 'pure' change in the age distribution was examined by keeping the aggregate population size fixed and changing only the relative frequencies in different age-gender groups. Finally, the effects of a policy change to benefit taper rates in Australia were compared for 2001 and 2050 population weights. It is suggested that this type of exercise provides an insight into the implications for government income tax revenue and social security expenditure of changes in the population, indicating likely pressures for policy changes. Copyright Blackwell Publishing Ltd/University of Adelaide and Flinders University 2006."] ['This paper examines the effects on consumer prices of a range of carbon taxes in New Zealand, using information about inter-industry transactions and the use of fossil fuels by industries. The resulting effects on the welfare of different household types and total expenditure levels are examined. The excess burdens of the carbon tax are computed for the different household types. Finally, overall measures of inequality are reported.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper describes microsimulation modelling in non-technical terms and explains what can be achieved with microsimulation modelling in general, and the Melbourne Institute Tax and Transfer Simulator (MITTS) in particular. The focus is on behavioural microsimulation modelling, which takes individuals\xe2\x80\x99 labour supply responses into account when analysing tax and transfer reforms. Microsimulation models are built to replicate closely the considerable degree of heterogeneity observed in the population. Several examples of recent uses of MITTS are given and briefly described. Given the relatively recent development of behavioural microsimulation models, there are several opportunities for further extensions. For example, it would be valuable to allow for the demand side of labour, indicating whether new labour force participants are likely to find work or to allow for life-cycle dynamics, which are important to deal with population-ageing issues and female labour force participation.'] [' Reductions in carbon dioxide emissions can come from (among other things) changes to the structure of final demands, changes in the use of fossil fuels by industry, and changes to the structure of inter-industry transactions. This paper examines the nature of the least disruptive changes, that is, the minimum changes to these three components which are consistent with specified overall reductions in carbon dioxide emissions in New Zealand. In examining the minimum changes needed, constraints are imposed on the corresponding changes in GDP growth and aggregate employment. Copyright Blackwell Publishing Ltd/University of Adelaide and Flinders University 2005..'] ["Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 This paper aims to examine the growth effects of human capital investment achieved through publicly-provided, compulsory education, financed from income and consumption taxes. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 Constructs an endogenous growth model for developing countries, based on human capital accumulation in which education is publicly provided and financed, and schooling is compulsory. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 Public investment in human and physical capital are financed from taxes on wage and capital income, and consumption. Semi-reduced forms are obtained to examine the equilibrium growth properties of the model, allowing the steady-state effects of fiscal policy to be derived. The specification of the human capital production function and the strength of labour supply effects are shown to be important for the magnitude of steady-state outcomes. Simulations illustrate the model's steady-state and transitional dynamic properties. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 Provides an analysis of the growth impact of state-provided education."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The assumption behind discrete hours labour supply modelling is that utility-maximising individuals choose from a relatively small number of hours levels, rather than being able to vary hours worked continuously. Such models are becoming widely used in view of their substantial advantages, compared with a continuous hours approach, when estimating and their role in tax policy microsimulation. This paper provides an introduction to the basic analytics of discrete hours labour supply modelling. Special attention is given to model specification, maximum likelihood estimation and microsimulation of tax reforms. The analysis is at each stage illustrated by the use of numerical examples. At the end, an empirical example of a hypothetical policy change to the social security system is given to illustrate the role of discrete hours microsimulation in the analysis of tax and transfer policy changes. Copyright Blackwell Publishers Ltd, 2005.'] [' This paper examines the sensitivity of inequality and poverty measures to the adult equivalence scale and the unit of analysis. Comparisons are made using parametric equivalence scales, and income units include individuals, equivalent adults and households. The role of the correlation between equivalent income and household size, and the weight attached to children, is examined analytically. Empirical results are based on New Zealand Household Expenditure Survey (HES) data for total expenditure. Further results using a variety of equivalence scales, for New Zealand, Australia, the UK and the OECD, are examined.'] ["This paper explores an extention of behavioural microsimulation modelling so that third round effects of a policy change can be simulated. The first round effects relate to fixed hours of work, while second round effects allow for changes in desired hours of work at unchanged wages. Third round effects allow for endogenous changes to the distribution of wage rates resulting from the labour supply responses to tax changes. This is achieved using the concept of an aggregate 'supply response schedule', which identifies the extent to which average labour supply responds to tax changes. This is achieved using the concept of an aggregate labour supply responds to a proportional change in wage rates. The third round effect is obtained after re-running a micro simulation model with a suitable modification to individuials' wage rates. The method is illustrated using the MITTS behavioural microsimulation model."] [' In New Zealand, excise taxes are levied on alcohol, tobacco and petrol. The advised that they should be removed and the revenue replaced by raising the standard rate of GST. This paper provides an empirical examination of these issues. First, the effects of the current system of indirect taxes are examined. The welfare and redistributive effects resulting from the revenue-neutral removal of excise taxes are then analysed for a range of demographic groups and total weekly expenditure levels. The largest efficiency gains and reductions in inequality are observed for households with at least one smoker, but the overall distributional implications of the proposed reforms are small.'] [" This paper examines the effect on a measure of social welfare of an in-work payment, involving a discontinuity at an hours threshold. Social welfare is defined in terms of individuals' utilities, which depend on leisure and net income. The in-work payment augments a modified minimum income guarantee having two tax rates. Numerical simulations, which ensure that a fixed amount of net revenue per person is collected by the government, show that social welfare falls systematically as the extent of the discontinuity increases, and as the hours threshold, at which the jump in net income occurs, increases. Eliminating the discontinuity resulting from the in-work payment, therefore, improves social welfare. Copyright 2005 The Economic Society Of Australia."] [' This paper examines the computation of welfare measures for use with labour supply models. The standard method of computing compensating and equivalent variations does not allow sufficiently for the nonlinearity of the budget constraint in such models. An alternative method is suggested and applied to contexts in which individuals are allowed to vary their hours continuously and to contexts where only a limited number of discrete hours of work are available. Discrete hours models have in recent years been used in view of the substantial econometric advantages when estimating the parameters of direct utility functions. This type of model is particularly popular in behavioural microsimulation modelling where predicted labour supply responses are calculated for policy changes. Copyright Blackwell Publishing Ltd and The University of Manchester, 2005.'] [' As the population ages there will be potentially significant implications for a wide range of economic variables, including in particular the fiscal costs of social expenditures. Long-term fiscal planning requires estimates of the possible future path of public spending. This article presents projections for 14 categories of social spending. These projections are based on detailed demographic estimates covering fertility, migration and mortality. Distributional parameters are incorporated for all of the major variables, and are used to build up probabilistic projections for social expenditure as a share of gross domestic product using simulation. Attention is focused on health expenditures which are disaggregated into seven broad classes. In addition, we explore the impacts of alternative hypotheses about future health costs. While it can be predicted with some confidence that overall social expenditures will rise, the results suggest that long-term planning would be enriched by recognising the distributions around point estimates of projected social costs. Copyright 2005 The University of Melbourne, Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research.'] ['This paper reports estimates of the potential welfare effects of hypothetical increases in the petrol excise tax in New Zealand. Equivalent variations, for a range of household types and total expenditure levels, are obtained along with distributional measures. Household demand responses are modelled using the Linear Expenditure System, where parameters vary by total expenditure level and household type. The effects on inequality were found to be negligible, but the marginal excess burdens typically ranged between 35 and 55 cents per dollar of additional revenue.'] [' This paper examines several Bayesian methods of obtaining posterior probability density functions of the Atkinson inequality measure and its associated social welfare function, in the context of grouped income distribution data. The methods are compared with asymptotic standard errors. The role of the number of income classes is investigated using a simulated distribution. If only a small number of groups is available in published data, there is a clear gain from generating the posterior probability density function when using an explicit income distribution assumption. Even with a small number of groups, the Bayesian approach gives results that are close to the sample values obtained using the corresponding individual observations. Copyright Blackwell Publishing Ltd/University of Adelaide and Flinders University of South Australia 2004.'] [' This paper provides estimates of individual and aggregate revenue elasticities of income and consumption taxes in New Zealand, based on the 2001 tax structure and expenditure patterns. Using analytical expressions for revenue elasticities at the individual and aggregate levels, together with a simulated income distribution, values for New Zealand were obtained. Results using equi-proportional income changes suggest that the aggregate income and consumption tax revenue elasticities are both fairly constant as mean income increases, at around 1.3 and 0.95 respectively. This latter estimate assumes that increases in disposable income are accompanied by approximately proportional increases in total expenditure. If there is a tendency for the savings proportion to increase as disposable income increases, a somewhat lower total consumption tax revenue elasticity, of around 0.9, is obtained for 2001 income levels. However, non-equiproportional income changes are more realistic. Allowing for regression towards the geometric mean income reduces these elasticities, giving an elasticity for income and consumption taxes combined that is only slightly above unity. Examination of the tax-share weighted expenditure elasticities for various goods also revealed that, despite the adoption of a broad based GST at a uniform rate in New Zealand, the persistence of various excises has an important effect on the overall consumption tax revenue elasticity, especially for individuals at relatively low income levels. Copyright Blackwell Publishing Ltd/University of Adelaide and Flinders University of South Australia 2004.'] ['This paper reports a reweighting exercise for the New Zealand Household Economic Survey, which is the basis of the Treasury\xe2\x80\x99s microsimulation model, TaxMod. Comparisons of benefit expenditures in a variety of demographic groups, along with population data, reveal that TaxMod estimates differ substantially from totals based on administrative data, when the weights provided by Statistics New Zealand are used. After describing the method used to compute new weights, the calibration requirements are reported. These relate to the age structure of the population and the number of beneficiaries for Unemployment Benefit, Domestic Purposes Benefit, Invalid\xe2\x80\x99s and Sickness Benefits and Family Support and Tax Credits. The revised weights and expenditure estimates are reported and the resulting distribution of income examined. The new weights are found to produce much improved expenditure estimates, while having little effect on the resulting income distribution. The effects of reweighting are demonstrated using a simple policy simulation.'] ['The aim of this paper is to illustrate some of the complexities involved in modelling the incentive effects of taxes and transfers, using only basic diagrammatic methods. It describes a range of diagrams which are helpful in thinking about the design of tax and transfer systems and their potential effects on labour supply behaviour. Emphasis is given to the role of highly nonlinear budget constraints and the resulting wide range of labour supply responses.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper examines the implications, for overall social welfare and inequality comparisons, of using different definitions of the unit of analysis in computing summary measures. The units considered are households, individuals and adult equivalent persons. Comparisons are made of the effects of flattening the marginal tax rate structure using the Melbourne Institute Tax and Transfer Simulator (MITTS), a simulation model of the Australian direct tax and benefit system. The reform was found to reduce inequality, no matter which unit of analysis was chosen. However, it was not always judged to improve social welfare, depending on the degree of inequality aversion and the unit of analysis chosen.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper provides estimates of individual and aggregate revenue elasticities of income and consumption taxes in the UK over the period 1989-2000. Its shows how budgetary changes, including changes to income-related deductions, have substantially affected income elasticities. The estimates of consumption tax revenue elasticities show that changes in consumption patterns over time are important. A merit of the approach used here is that elasticity estimates can be calculated readily from official published sources.'] [' This paper provides new estimates of the revenue elasticities of income and consumption taxes in the UK over the period 1989-2000. Using new analytical expressions for consumption taxes, these elasticities are estimated from information on relatively few parameters, almost all of which are readily available from published sources. Changes in consumption patterns over time, and income tax parameters, are found to be important for the magnitude of consumption tax elasticities. Copyright Blackwell Publishing Ltd and The Victoria University of Manchester, 2003.'] [' This paper measures the concentration of ill-health among income groups in Australia using health survey data from 1989-90 (Australian Bureau of Statistics 1991) and 1995 (Australian Bureau of Statistics 1997), which contain responses on self-assessed health status and gross personal income. The technique of direct standardisation is used to control for the influence on health status of gender and age. Comparisons of the concentration of ill-health over time and between males and females and persons living in rural and urban areas are reported. For both surveys and all groups, we find that ill-health is concentrated among lower income groups. Concentration measures of ill-health are higher (in absolute terms) for men than for women. In all categories apart from women, the concentration measures fell between 1989-90 and 1995 surveys. Copyright 2003. The Economic Society of Australia.'] [' This paper examines Bayesian methods of examining posterior distributions of inequality, concentration, tax progressivity and social welfare measures. Use is made of an explicit income distribution assumption and two alternative assumptions regarding the distribution of pre-tax mean incomes within each income group. The methods are applied to a simulated distribution of individual incomes and tax payments. It is possible to identify a minimum acceptable number of income classes to be used. The results suggest support for the use of group means in practical applications, particularly where large sample sizes are available. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2003'] ['This study estimates a cost function for higher education in Australian universities using pooled series of cross-sectional data. The study enabled the quantification of the cost differences between levels of studies and subject areas. The resulting cost function is used to derive estimates of the overall cost of providing higher education to overseas students.'] [" This article uses the Melbourne Institute Tax and Transfer Simulator to examine the effects of a reduction in the means-tested benefit taper, or withdrawal, rates in Australia to 30 per cent. That is, all taper rates of 50 per cent and 70 per cent in the March 1998 benefit system are reduced to 30 per cent, while leaving all basic benefit levels unchanged. This change is therefore expected to 'flatten' the tax structure by reducing the high marginal tax rates applying to those with relatively low incomes and increasing the marginal tax rates of medium incomes. Simulations in which all individuals are assumed to remain at their pre-reform labour supply levels are compared with behavioural simulations in which the majority of individuals are free to adjust the number of hours worked. The results reflect only the supply side of the labour market. The database used is the 1997-98 Survey of Income and Housing Costs, so that weekly incomes are based on the financial year 1997-98. The comparison shows that, for sole parents, accounting for behavioural effects of the reform results in a lower estimated expenditure for government, whereas for couples, accounting for behavioural effects results in a higher estimated expenditure. Copyright 2003 The University of Melbourne, Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research."] ['This paper decomposes the redistributive effect of indirect taxation into vertical, horizontal inequity and reranking effects. The latter two effects arise because households with the same total expenditure have different patterns. The pre-and post-GST structures in Australia are examined. The results show that an important role is played, in particular, by reranking.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" It is often argued that an observation of rising annual income inequality need not have negative normative implications. The argument is that if there has been a sufficiently large simultaneous increase in mobility, the inequality of income measured over a longer time period can be lower despite the rise in annual inequality. In this paper, it is shown by example that if normative implications are drawn from a standard social welfare function, the set of circumstances put forward in the above argument are not sufficient to guarantee that social welfare will improve. The reason is that even though rising mobility does reduce longer term inequality, it also increases the variability of income profiles over time and the latter has a detrimental social welfare effect. Hence, there are two types of mobility: one which reduces inequality (regression to the mean), but another that increases inequality (relative movements uncorrelated with incomes). Further, if individuals' aversion to income variability is sufficiently larger than the social welfare judge's aversion to inequality, then an increase in mobility, no matter how large, cannot offset the negative normative effect of rising annual inequality. Copyright 2002 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd/University of Adelaide and Flinders University of South Australia"] [' This paper reviews, and synthesises within a uniform framework, a number of analytical results on the built-in flexibility of taxation. Established results for income taxes are reviewed and integrated with recent results for consumption taxes. These help to provide a better understanding of the determinants of the revenue responsiveness properties of different taxes. They also provide convenient expressions for the calculation of tax revenue elasticities in practice. It is shown that the magnitude of revenue elasticities can be expected to differ substantially for alternative taxes, for different forms of the same tax, and for the same tax over time as incomes change relative to tax thresholds and as consumption patterns change. These results are especially relevant for the many industrialised countries which have undertaken major fiscal reforms in recent years with, often unintended, consequences for revenue elasticities. Copyright 2002 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd'] [' This paper provides a technical survey of recent developments in behavioural microsimulation. We discuss the criteria by which models of labour supply may be chosen for application to behavioural microsimulation, and consider how such models may be augmented to control for fixed costs, child-related work costs, preference heterogeneity and endogeneity in wages. We describe methods by which non-linear budget constraints may be accommodated in estimation, policy simulations and welfare analysis, and discuss how stochastic terms may be factored into the simulation of behavioural responses to a policy shock. Copyright 2002 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd'] ['This paper tells you everything you need to know in order to impress your friends with your knowledge of the most famous people and the useful past of the subject of economics. However, it is recommended that this paper should not be read in the company of anyone who reads dusty old books, and who therefore has a tendency to sneeze.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper examines take-up rates in a model in which there is a fixed non-refundable cost of applying for benefits. The model involves a joint decision regarding both labour supply and the take-up of the benefit. There is a single means-tested benefit involving a "taper rate" at which benefits are withdrawn as earnings increase. It is found that take-up increases as the level of the taper rate increases, and the value of benefits increases. The achievement of 100% take-up is associated with labour supply responses whereby there are few, if any, individuals who are both working and eligible for benefits. The results have implications for the effects of lowering the taper rate on the costs and effective targeting of benefits. Copyright 2002 by Scottish Economic Society.'] [' This paper derives analytical expressions for the revenue elasticity of consumption taxes and combined income-consumption tax systems, analogous to those familiar for income taxes. It provides measures of tax revenue elasticities which can readily be applied in practice. Analytical results suggest that, unlike income taxes, consumption tax revenues are likely to be income-inelastic in practice, and total income plus consumption tax revenue, though generally elastic, can be expected to decline over time in the absence of counterveiling fiscal reforms. The results also provide some insight into the effects on tax revenue growth (often unintended or unknown) of reforms made with other policy objectives in mind. Copyright 2002 by The Economic Society of Australia.'] [" This paper compares a stylized version of a basic income flat tax system (BI/FT) with a means tested graduated tax system (MT/GT), with particular attention paid to potential labor supply effects of taxes. A highly simplified simulation model is developed in which individuals are homogeneous except for the wage they face, and there is a single means-tested benefit. In this model, moving towards universal benefits can raise labor force participation and such effects can outweigh the labor supply reductions of working taxpayers. The number of losers is found to be quite small relative to the number of winners. If a fully universal system is not adopted, a move towards it, by reducing the taper on means tested benefits at the expense of a higher tax rate, can lead to significant winners without losers. These findings do not appear to be sensitive to assumptions about the individuals' utility function defined over income and leisure. Copyright 2002 by The Economic Society of Australia."] ['This paper examines the question of whether indirect tax rates should be uniform, using four different modelling strategies. First, marginal tax reform is examined. This is concerned with the optimal direction of small changes in effective indirect tax rates and requires considerably less information than the calculation of optimal rates. Second, the welfare effects of a partial shift from the current indirect tax system in Australia towards a goods and services tax (GST) are considered, with particular emphasis on differences between household types and the role of exemptions. Third, in view of the stress on a distributional role for exemptions of certain goods from a GST, the potential limits to such redistribution are considered. The fourth approach examines the extent of horizontal inequity and reranking that can arise when there are non-uniform tax rates. These inequities arise essentially because of preference heterogeneity.'] [' This paper considers the question of whether it is possible to identify labour supply incentive effects of a tax and transfer system using information on only the distribution of earnings. The major characteristics of earnings distributions arising from a simple labour supply model are examined. These characteristics include the existence of modes and antimodes caused by kinks where effective marginal tax rates increase and non-convexities in budget constraints arising from means-testing. Actual earnings distributions, concentrating on unemployment benefit recipients, are then examined. It is suggested that the use of such an approach must be severely limited, in view of the fact that there is no one-to-one correspondence between the form of the earnings distribution and the parameters of a tax and transfer system. Copyright 2001 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd/University of Adelaide and Flinders University of South Australia'] [' This paper examines the Gini-based method of decomposing the redistributive effect of taxation into vertical, horizontal, and reranking components. The consequences of different bandwidth choices, used to identify close-equals groups to estimate the horizontal effect, are discussed. Two opposing forces are identified which militate against choosing a very small or large bandwidth. It is suggested that the best procedure is to use the bandwidth that maximises the estimated vertical component, compute the reranking component exactly as a sample statistic and obtain the horizontal effect by subtraction. The technique is used to analyse the progressivity of tax and transfer payments in Australia. Copyright 2001 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd'] [' This paper reviews several alternative approaches to tax modelling, emphasizing the strengths and limitations of different approaches and types of model along with their potential role in rational policy analysis. The coverage is limited to models of personal direct and indirect taxes. A range of small models is considered, in which there is little population heterogeneity, and tax structures are relatively simple. Larger microsimulation models, which are based on cross-sectional data sets and which attempt to capture much of the complexity of actual tax structures, are then discussed. The challenge presented by the need for behavioural models is examined. It is argued that there is a role for a variety of alternative models. Policy debates inevitably involve prejudices, much rhetoric and special pleading. Rational policy analysis, in which the implications of adopting a range of explicit value judgments are examined, can make a valuable contribution to such debates. Copyright 2001 by The Economic Society of Australia.'] ['This paper provides a brief guide for students undertaking their first piece of research. The activity of research itself and the closely related process of writing a research report or thesis are so different from the standard work of students, that it is helpful to set down explicitly some of those things that experienced researches have often take for granted.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper examines the optimal management strategy for a forested catchment that yields timber, water and carbon sequestration benefits. The Faustmann multiple rotation model is extended to allow for the maximisation of the net present value of these timber and non-timber benefits. The model is applied to the Thomson Catchment in Central Gippsland, Victoria. Carbon sequestration benefits are modelled via total stand biomass accumulation. The cost of carbon release back into the atmosphere upon logging is estimated as a function of rotation age using an adjusted pulpwood/sawlog ratio. The allowance for both non-timber benefits is found to lengthen the optimal rotation, in a large range of cases to infinity.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper decomposes the redistributive effect on annual and lifetime inequality of a range of taxes and transfers in Australia, using a dynamic cohort lifetime simulation model. The redistributive effect is decomposed into vertical, horizontal and reranking effects. Horizontal inequities in the tax and transfer system are found to be negligible. The extent of reranking is greater in the lifetime than in the annual context and is affected by the equivalence scales used to adjust household incomes. If no adjustment is made to household incomes, reranking is about nine per cent of the reduction in lifetime inequality. However, if each child is counted as equivalent to one-third of an adult, reranking is found to be less than one per cent. Copyright 2001 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd/University of Adelaide and Flinders University of South Australia'] ['This paper examines the generation of earnings distributions using a labour supply framework in which individuals face piecewise-linear budget constraints. The possible implications for the distribution of earnings within a population consisting of single individuals having a joint distribution of wage rates and preferences are considered. Attention is given to the form of the distribution in terms of the number and position of modes and antimodes, and their relationship with the structure of taxes and transfers. Since it is necessary to obtain the optimal labour supply for a large number of individuals, attention is also given to the efficient computation of local optima for a tax structure having any number of effective marginal tax rates.'] ['This paper is concerned with the conditions under which a compulsory pay-as-you-go pension system, in which the current generation of workers finances the pensions of those who are currently retired, is superior to the use of private saving.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper investigates the implications for Australian households of a carbon tax, using the input-output approach developed by Simons et al. (1994) and adapted by Cornwell and Creedy (1997). In these studies the carbon dioxyde reduction is generated by demand changes resulting from the differential price changes arising from a carbon tax. The present peaper incorporates substitution between fuels in the electricity generating sector, which is the largest single contributor to the Enhanced Greenhouse Effect.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper examines the use of the quadratic direct utility function in modelling labour supply behaviour. This function has been used in recent empirical studies of labour supply. Emphasis is given to the treatment of welfare changes, involving the derivation of the expenditure function. A convenient expression for the Slutsky condition is also obtained. In examining welfare changes, special attention is given to possible movements to or from corner solutions, since these involve the use of virtual wages rather than observed net wages. In addition, changes in tax parameters can have income and price effects, in view of the endogeneity of the net (or virtual) wage rate and virtual income when faced with piecewise-linear budget constraints. Numerical examples illustrate the effects of tax changes on compensating and equivalent variations.'] [' This paper examines methods used to evaluate the welfare effects of tax changes, with emphasis on the measurement problems involved. Welfare changes and excess burdens are defined, along with approximations. Aggregate measures, using a social welfare function, are examined. The special case of income taxation is then examined, leading to discussion of the marginal welfare cost of taxation and the marginal cost of funds. The measurement methods examined include the use and estimation of direct and indirect utility functions, along with the algebraic and numerical integration from estimated Marshallian demand functions to the compensated demands. The use of equivalent incomes to examine tax changes, using unit record data from household budget surveys, is then discussed. Copyright 2000 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd and the Board of Trustees of the Bulletin of Economic Research'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper reports estimates of wage equations for groups of Australian workers, using pooled data from the Income Distribution Surveys for 1995 and 1996, the first two years for which continuous hours information is available for each individual. The problem of using the wage functions to assign a wage rate to non-workers, which is needed in the context of labour supply analysis, is also examined. Special attention is given to the case where the wage equation includes variables that are not available for the unemployed. The use of extraneous information about the occupation and industry characteristics of the unemployed is recommended.'] [' This paper examines the implications for lifetime income equality of alternative retirement income arrangements, using the Australian scheme as a benchmark. In Australia, the pay-as-you go financed age pension is means-tested and thereby provides a contrast with those countries where part or all of a basic pension is paid to all aged persons. Many governments are considering an increase in the level of means-testing. The results show that the introduction of a universal pension coupled with significant changes and simplifications to the structure of taxation and superannuation have little effect on the redistributive impact of the tax structure in a life cycle framework. The presence of means-testing appears to have no significant effect on life-time inequality. The results suggest that it is possible to eliminate complexities from the system providing retirement benefits without having any deleterious effect on equity. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 1999'] [" Walras is famous for his indication of how, in principle, demand curves can be derived from utility maximization. However, it is seldom recognized that Walras did not have partial equilibrium demand curves in mind. Instead, he concentrated on the context of exchange. The 'general equilibrium' demand and supply curves produced by Walras and extended by Launhardt have subsequently been almost entirely 'lost' in the literature, despite their central role in the analysis of exchange. They have been independently rediscovered several times, but the approach has not been systematically developed. This paper examines the derivation of Walras's curves. It is suggested that the approach is potentially very useful, particularly in view of the increased use of nonlinear methods in economics. Copyright 1999 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd and The Victoria University of Manchester"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Governments in many developed economies provide private pension plans with significant taxation incentives. However, as many retirement income systems are now being reviewed due to demographic, social and economic pressures, these taxation arrangements are also under scrutiny. This paper discusses some of the implications of the differences between the traditional taxation treatment adopted by most OECD nations and that adopted by Australia, where there is a tax on contributions, a tax on investment earnings and a tax on benefits. The results show that there are significant differences in the net value of the benefits received by individuals and the taxation revenue received by the government. On the other hand, it is shown that there is remarkably little to distinguish between the two tax structures in terms of summary measures of lifetime income, although the form in which the benefit is taken in retirement is significant in influencing intragenerational equity.'] [' This paper examines the relative burden of monopoly, measured using the equivalent variation, for different household income levels. The results indicate that, whatever the size of the absolute welfare loss due to monopoly, there may be a substantial effect on the distribution of welfare. Copyright 1999 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd/University of Adelaide and Flinders University of South Australia'] [" Individuals' attitudes to inequality aversion are measured using survey data, based on the leaky-bucket experiment, for several groups of students in Australia and Israel. Three forms of social welfare function are estimated. It is found that measures of inequality aversion can be obtained with some precision and that these estimates are substantially lower than the values typically used by those measuring inequality and examining optimal tax structures. Furthermore, a welfare function based on the Gini inequality measure is generally found to give a better fit than forms based on constant relative or constant absolute inequality aversion. Copyright 1999 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics."] [' The welfare effects of several indirect tax reforms in Australia are examined for a number of types of household in a range of income groups. The welfare changes, measured using equivalent variations, are based on the use of the linear expenditure system, where parameters are different in each of the income groups. The effects of the current system and of several reforms are found to differ significantly among the household types. However, the results suggest that the extent of vertical redistribution involved in the current indirect tax structure, and possible reforms to it, are small. The role of exemptions are examined in the case of food, for which the budget shares are systematically higher in lower income households, and health services. In view of the strong assumptions used at each stage, the results must be regarded as tentative. Copyright 1999 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd/University of Adelaide and Flinders University of South Australia'] [' This paper explores a method of examining the effects of macroeconomic variables on the personal distribution of income over time. The approach involves modelling the complete distribution of income in each year using a conditional mixture distribution. The parameters of the distribution are specified as functions of the macroeconomic variables. The paper shows how comparative static analysis, involving the Atkinson inequality measure, can be performed. The method is applied to male New Zealand income distribution data for wage and salary earners over the period 1985 to 1994. It appears that cyclical variations in unemployment and GDP contributed substantially to the observed increase in inequality over the period 1987 to 1991 and the reduction in inequality during the years 1993 and 1994.'] ["This paper compares alternative estimates of the extent of Australia's greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. While the total amount cannot be known with certainty, debate concerning appropriate policies to deal with and monitor emissions must rely on estimates. However, it is shown that there are substantial differences between the results of alternative procedures.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [" This paper examines the relative burden of monopoly, measured as the (static) loss of consumers' surplus for different household income levels. Australian Household Expenditure Survey data are used to generate demand elasticities for fourteen commodity groups and to obtain estimates of the relative welfare loss for households with different income levels. The welfare loss associated with monopoly power is found to be higher for low-income households (such as households that depend on government pensions and benefits for their principal source of income) compared with high-income households. The results provide an indication that, whatever the size of the absolute welfare loss arising from monopoly, there may be a substantial effect on the distribution of welfare. Copyright 1998 by The London School of Economics and Political Science"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The exponential family of distributions offers considerable scope for the analysis of income distributions because of its ability to 'nest' many densities and the possibility of deriving special cases explicitly from labour demand and supply models. This paper presents several estimation methods based on the use of grouped data. These methods are motivated by the fact that many income distribution data are available in grouped form. The methods are applied to New Zealand income distribution data for males and females in a number of age groups. The generalised gamma distribution is found to provide the best fit to the distributions of most age groups. Three of the four parameters of the generalized gamma distribution are expressed as functions of age and conditional generalised gamma distributions are estimated using maximum likelihood, modified for grouped data. The estimated model captured the major empirical features of the changing distribution of income with age."] ['This paper describes a method of estimating the welfare effects of a set of price changes, using money measures of welfare change such as compensating and equivalent variations, and the associated concept of "equivalent income".<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper uses a lifetime income simulation model to examine the effects on inequality and progressivity of extending the time period over which income is measured. The income tax schedule typically displays increasing marginal rates, and there is a substantial amount of relative income mobility, along with a systematic variation in average incomes over the life cycle of the cohort. Simulations show that progressivity and inequality measures can often move in opposite directions, both over time for annual accounting periods, and as the length of period is gradually increased. The relationship between summary measures is complicated by the role of the aggregate tax ratio, in addition to the re-ranking that can occur in the larger period framework. Some tax structures are found to increase in progressivity, while others show less progressivity, as the time period increases. Re-ranking is found to increase as the accounting period increases: it is higher and increases more rapidly as the accounting period is increased for tax structures displaying more steeply rising rate structures.'] [' This paper compares the use of equivalent income with that of utility, in the social welfare function, in optimal income tax models. Equivalent income is a money metric welfare measure that, unlike utility, is not affected by monotonic transformations of utility. The use of equivalent income is found to produce an optimal tax rate that is more sensitive to the degree of inequality aversion, compared with the use of utility. With Cobb-Douglas and CES utility functions, the optimal tax rate is the same for utility and equivalent income where relative inequality aversion is unity. When using equivalent incomes, the case for high marginal rates does not depend on the assumption of a very low elasticity of substitution between consumption and leisure. Copyright 1998 by Scottish Economic Society.'] [' This paper has two main aims, both associated with measuring the welfare effects of price changes. First, it examines the distributional effects of the change in the indirect tax system in New Zealand during the mid-1980s. Second, it examines the distributional impact of recent inflation in New Zealand. The results confirm those of previous studies which found that indirect taxes in New Zealand did not have a substantially larger impact on low income groups compared with high income groups. Furthermore, the introduction of the goods and services tax does not appear to be regressive. However, recent price changes in New Zealand have had a higher impact on the high income groups, although this tendency is quite small. Copyright 1998 by The Economic Society of Australia.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper illustrates the use of different criteria used to evaluate alternative tax and transfer systems. Means-tested and universal transfer systems are compared, using numerical examples involving a small number of individuals, in order to highlight the precise effects on incomes. The implications of fixed incomes and of endogenous incomes, using CES utility functions, are examined. Comparisons between tax systems involve fundamental value judgements concerning inequality and poverty, and no tax structure can be regarded as unambiguously superior to another. Judgements depend on the degree of inequality aversion and attitudes poverty. However, in cases where means-testing is preferred, the desired tax or taper rate applying to benefits is substantially less than 100 percent. Copyright 1998 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd and The Victoria University of Manchester'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The aim of the present paper is to examine the statistical properties of social expenditures projections with the use of a stochastic model.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper introduces an approach to nonlinear modelling which is based on the use of the generalized exponential family of distributions. The flexibility of the approach is illustrated using hypothetical data based on an economic model which exhibits multiple equilibria for certain periods of time and a unique equilibrium for other periods. The distributional analogue of multiple equilibria is multimodality. An advantage of this framework is that discrete jumps can be modelled without the need for identifying the timing of jumps ex post. The framework also has the advantage of explaining how smooth changes in market fundamentals can give rise to large and sudden changes in prices. The introduction of economic assumptions into nonlinear models is explained, and it is shown how an explicit form for the distribution of the dependent variable can be derived. It is suggested that the approach has considerable potential in a wide variety of economic contexts. Copyright 1998 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd and the Board of Trustees of the Bulletin of Economic Research'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper provides an introduction to some aspects of the role of taxes in a static general equilibrium framework. The standard diagrammatic framework is first used, in the case of fixed factor supplies, in order to examine selective commodity and factor taxes. A simple two-sector model, with Cobb-Douglas production functions and preferences, and allowing labour supplies to be endogenous, is then constructed. Several tax policies are examined using numerical examples. Copyright 1997 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd and the Board of Trustees of the Bulletin of Economic Research'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper exemines the redistributional effect of price changes in Australia over the sixteen year period from 1980 to 1995.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" This paper compares a linear income tax with a modified minimum income guarantee that uses means testing. The schemes are evaluated in terms of both their ability to reduce poverty and their influence on social welfare (defined in terms of individuals' utilities). The comparisons involve a lexicographic approach whereby poverty reduction is regarded as the primary objective. Using a range of poverty measures and social welfare functions, simulations show that the linear income tax dominates the minimum income guarantee. Copyright 1997 by Royal Economic Society."] [' The increased availability of cohort data and use of dynamic microsimulation models means that more attention is now being paid to longer term income concepts. Results are usually reported for only one income concept and a limited number of summary measures, and it is not clear whether results are influenced by the income concept used. This paper used simulation methods to compare different approaches. For this purpose a very simple life-cycle earnings model was used to generate profiles of pre-tax incomes. Many comparisons were made using a flexible tax structure and four alternative income concepts. It was found that there was a substantial amount of agreement among the alternative concepts in making airwise comparisons, with tentative support for the use of present values. Copyright 1997 by The International Association for Research in Income and Wealth.'] [' This paper explores the use of a parametric approach to the measurement of compensating and equivalent variations resulting from price changes. The approach is based on the application of the Linear Expenditure System (LES) to each of a range of household income groups, rather than being based on a "representative" consumer. The method is then used to examine the distributional effects of a carbon tax, designed to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. The price changes resulting from a carbon tax depend on the "carbon intensities" of each good, which depend in turn on the nature of inter-industry transactions (the input-output matrix). The use of transfer payments to compensate for adverse distributional effects of a carbon tax is investigated, using social welfare functions based on equivalent incomes.'] ['This paper examines the relationship between the cross-sectional and lifetime income distributions using a simple model of relative income mobility. It asks whether cross-sectional comparisons between countries can provide a good indication of lifetime inequality differences if income mobility is similar, and whether lifetime inequality increases by less than cross-sectional inequality if the latter increases as a result of higher mobility. Analytical and simulation methods are used to show that the answer to both questions is negative. Comparisons must allow for different types of mobility, the nature of the age-income profile and the age distribution in each country.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper examines labor supply and social welfare, following G. W. Lewis and D. T. Ulph (1988), in a model in which individuals gain a utility premium if they raise their net income up to or above a threshold level. It may, thus, be worthwhile for some individuals to avoid poverty by supplying a higher amount of labor than in the standard model. Over a range of wage rates, labor supply falls as the wage increases. In this framework, poverty is integral to a social welfare function because it matters to individuals. A special case leads to the use of the headcount poverty measure in an abbreviated social welfare function. Copyright 1997 by The Economic Society of Australia.'] ['Explores tax structures in a two-period, two-good model, allowing for endogenous labour supplies. The model includes the specification of a joint distribution of wage rates facing individuals in the two periods. It also specifies a joint distribution of the various preference parameters used, allowing for the calibration such that the average proportion of expenditure on each good varies with (endogenous) income. This introduces distributional grounds for the use of a selective consumption tax, alongside an income tax, when maximizing a social welfare function displaying inequality aversion.'] ['from the combustion of fossil fuels, has led to proposals for non-market mechanisms such as regulation, and market mechanisms such as tradable emissions permits and carbon taxes, in order to reduce emissions. Market methods are usually preferred in terms of efficiency, and the carbon tax is deemed as being the easiest to implement and monitor. Owen (1992, p. 4)compares carbon taxes with other instruments; Pearce (1991) provides a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of a carbon tax; and Dower and Zimmerman (1992) compare the merits of carbon taxes and tradable emissions permits. A carbon tax would affect the price of fossil fuels and thus consumer prices,both directly for fuels and indirectly for manufactured goods. These price changes would alter the levels of final demands, and therefore fossil fuel use and aggregate carbon dioxide emissions. This paper investigates the orders of magnitude of a carbon tax required to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in Australia such that the Toronto target is met; this requires a reduction in emissions of 20 per cent of 1988 levels by 2005. The paper also examines the'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper compares the lifetime redistribution and progressivity, within a cohort of males, of two retirement income systems. The current government strategy in Australia is to increase the role of occupational superannuation and maintain a means-tested age pension. The Institute of Actuaries of Australia has recommended a universal pension with a corresponding smaller role for occupational superannuation. In terms of lifetime inequality and progressivity measures, it is found that there is not a substantial difference between the two systems. Other issues, such as the benefit choice at retirement and differential mortality, are found to be more important in determining the lifetime redistributive impact of a retirement income strategy. Copyright 1996 by The Economic Society of Australia.'] [" This paper is concerned with comparisons between alternative tax and transfer systems. Using 'target efficiency' measures where the objective is the alleviation of poverty, means testing is preferred. However, the desire to reduce inequality usually leads to a preference for universal transfer systems such as the linear income tax. The present paper provides comparisons of social welfare (using an abbreviate welfare function) for schemes which imply the same degree of poverty (using several poverty measures). It was found that means-testing dominates if the headcount poverty measure is used, otherwise the linear tax dominates. Copyright 1996 by The London School of Economics and Political Science."] [" This paper provides a framework for building and estimating non-linear real exchange rate models. The approach derives the stationary distribution from a continuous time error correction model and estimates this by MLE methods. The derived distribution exhibits a wide variety of distributional shapes including multimodality. The main result is that swings in the US/UK rate over the period 1973:3 to 1990:5 can be attributed to the distribution becoming bimodal with the rate switching between equilibria. By capturing these changes in the distribution, the non-linear model yields improvements over the random walk, the speculative efficiency model, and Hamilton's stochastic segmented trends model. Copyright 1996 by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Individual retirees face a daunting task when they consider how best to invest their accumulated superannuation account and non-superannuation savings. This article highlights the fact that there is rarely an obvious decision in this choice and that the optimal decision depends on a number of factors. These factors include the valuation criterion adopted, the level of benefits, the individual's income level, the means-tests, the tax rates on income and superannuation benefits and the person's life expectancy. The optimal behaviour at retirement is significantly affected by the individual characteristics of relative lifetime earnings and post-retirement rates of mortality. Copyright 1995 The University of Melbourne, Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper uses a simulation model to compare the lifetime consequences of a revenue neutral partial shift toward a consumption tax, involving exemptions, with its cross-sectional effects. Exemptions of goods consumed proportionately more by lower income groups reduce the inequality of the distribution of net lifetime consumption by more than in the cross-sectional case. However, the tax shift increases lifetime inequality by more than it increases cross-sectional inequality, and the net effect is that exemptions cannot compensate for the income tax change. Concern with inequality is most appropriately handled by raising transfer payments rather than introducing exemptions. Copyright 1995 by The Economic Society of Australia.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper compares state pensions using a two-period model which allows for labor supply responses. A two-tier pension gives rise to a nonconvex budget constraint facing individuals, giving rise to a range of labor supply responses. The paper uses a social welfare function to consider the trade-off between average utility and inequality. The trade-off displays a backward bending section whereby, above a certain tax rate, further increases in tax reduce average utility and increase inequality. A major result is that, in terms of the trade-off between equity and efficiency, the flat-rate pension dominates the two-tier pension. Hence a higher social indifference curve can always be reached using a flat-rate pension. Copyright 1994 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd and The Victoria University of Manchester'] [' This paper examines compensating wage differentials for an individual utility maximizing worker in a two-period framework in which labor supply is endogenous. Comparisons are made for a flat-rate and a two-tier pension containing an earnings-related component, allowing for other taxes and transfers. It is found that the elasticities vary substantially according to preferences and the wage rate, and the elasticity of earnings with respect to pensions can take both positive and negative values. The empirical literature has, however ignored labor supply effects and has concentrated on specifications involving a constant elasticity of minus one, with very little success. The present paper argues that such a specification is not appropriate. Copyright 1994 by Scottish Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper considers the use of fees versus the use of taxation for the finance of higher education in a framework that pays special attention to some of the interdependencies involved. In particular, the use of subsidies, in the form of a higher education grant to students, involves, via the government\xe2\x80\x99s budget constraint, an increase in taxation. This increase in income taxation imposes an obvious burden on those who do not invest in higher education, but it is not a \xe2\x80\x98free\xe2\x80\x99 good from the point of view of the grant recipients who must pay higher taxes than otherwise during their working lives. This component of taxation may be called a deferred fee.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Projections of the social expenditure to GDP ratio indicate the extent of the 'burden' of population ageing on future workers and have been used by governments to aid policy decisions in such areas as immigration and superannuation. This article shows that the social expenditure to GDP ratio is heavily dependent on assumptions made about real spending growth, productivity growth, unemployment and participation rates. It produces a framework that makes the assumptions underlying the projections clear and enables the results of changing the assumptions to be easily compared. The projected ratios are significantly higher than those obtained in previous Australian studies. Copyright 1993 The University of Melbourne, Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The redistributive impact of the U.K. state pension scheme is examined. Benefit-cost ratios are calculated using individual lifetime earnings profiles constructed for a cohort of men drawn from cross-section data. The scheme is investigated at maturity and revenue neutrality is imposed in order to isolate the intragenerationally redistributive effects of the pension scheme. The results suggest that differences in returns to the pension scheme are driven by differential mortality, which outweigh the redistributive effect of the two-tier benefit structure. Various reforms of the pension scheme are then simulated, and solved for revenue neutrality. The results suggest that a great deal of care is needed in formulating reforms if redistributive objectives are to be achieved. Copyright 1993 by The International Association for Research in Income and Wealth.'] [" A public choice approach is used to examine the level of a tax-financed grant chosen by a cohort, allowing for a wide range of interdependencies, including the government's budget constraint. The existence of an externality is necessary, but not sufficient, for support of a grant. It is shown that a majority voting equilibrium exists. Comparative static analyses are carried out using a minimum of assumptions about the structure of the model. An increase in government expenditure for non-higher education purposes is associated.with an increase in the preferred grant, while an increase in private returns to education reduces the grant. Copyright 1993 by The Economic Society of Australia."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Examines, using a simple model, the choice of appropriate contributions of taxes and fees used to finance higher education. A two-period model is developed in which individuals in cohort invest in higher education in the first period, and the interdependences between educational choice and the tax system are considered. The implications of majority voting and the maximization of a social welfare function, allowing for a trade-off between equity and efficiency, are examined in progressive and proportional tax systems.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Provides a framework for analysing the financing of state pensions with a wide range of policy options. Special attention is given, however, to two special cases: the first involves a means-tested pension similar to the Australian scheme, while the second is similar to the basic pension (the first tier) in the UK. Emphasis is given to the implications of population ageing for pension finance in each scheme; a range of policies can be considered using specially designed computer programs.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' It is argued that for many purposes the measurement of inequality should be based on income measured over a longer period than a single year. However, samples of individual earnings over a long period are extremely rare and there are no data on complete lifetime earnings. This survey examines the wide variety of attempts that have been made to estimate inequality using a longer accounting period. Emphasis is placed on the problems of extending the accounting period, rather than the properties of particular statistical measures of inequality. Copyright 1991 by The Economic Society of Australia.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' In this paper, the following four models of wage determination by trade unions, namely simple monopoly, wage-bargaining (or "right to manage"), efficient bargains, and insider-dominated, are placed within a single framework. It is shown that the pattern of wage behavior is the same in each of the four models. It is also shown that when taxation is introduced the impact on wages of changes in marginal and average rates of tax is similar across the models. Copyright 1991 by The Economic Society of Australia.'] [' In Money, Credit and Commerce, Alfred Marshall gave a numerical example of two countries\' trading schedules in which he stated the net benefit of trade to each country. Allyn Young, along with Taussig and Loria, suggested that Marshall had made a "perplexing slip." This paper contradicts Young\'s arguments and produces a very close approximation to Marshall\'s results by fitting a smooth curve to his schedules. Further analysis shows that Marshall\'s offer curves are approximately cubic, which is consistent with demand curves in which the relative price is written as a quadratic function of quantity demanded. Copyright 1991 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd and The Victoria University of Manchester'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The use of selective benefits, directed to those considered most in need, has a high 'poverty reduction efficiency'. But selectivity inevitably produces non-linearities in the budget constraints facing individuals, which may have incentive effects. The design of a tax and transfer scheme requires these two aspects to be carefully balanced. This article considers the issues in the context of means-testing within the Australian and UK State pension schemes. In the Australian case, the main question concerns the incentive to save, while in the UK scheme the 'earnings rule' presents a strong disincentive to work beyond pension age. Copyright 1990 The University of Melbourne, Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research."] [" This paper contrasts the approaches of Alfred Marshall and Francis Y. Edgeworth to economics, paying particular attention to their views on moral philosophy and the role of mathematics in economics. Edgeworth's analysis of trade unions, stimulated by Marshall's discussion, is examined in relation to subsequent analyses of trade union bargaining models. Disputes between Edgeworth and Marshall, concerning indeterminacy in exchange and Giffen goods, are then discussed. Marshall's numerical example of a Giffen good, involving two methods of transport, is examined in detail. Copyright 1990 by Scottish Economic Society."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This article examines income tax progression as a mechanism for achieving the intertemporal adjustments of earnings profiles. With a rising income profile, the preference for progression arises from the market (borrowing) rate of interest exceeding the rate at which the government borrows. For a given tax burden, each individual is found to prefer a marginal tax rate of unity, with the threshold set as high as possible. With a common tax structure, the conditions under which all individuals prefer progression is examined.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' To reduce the level of tax evasion, a shift of taxation away from income tax and towards a consumption tax has been proposed in Australia. This paper shows that for such shift to maintain revenue but not induce trade unions to raise their wage demand, it is necessary that the income tax threshold be increased. Numerical examples of desirable tax packages are given. Copyright 1990 by The Economic Society of Australia.'] [' This paper examines William Whewell\'s mathematical model of John Stuart Mill\'s analysis of international trade contained in his Principles. Several authors have argued that Whewell simply "translated" Mill into mathematics and that his analysis was marred by a mathematical error concerning the use of inequalities. But it is shown that no such error was committed. Whewell is shown to have provided a significant extension to Mill\'s analysis. It is argued that Mill\'s "supplementary sections" in fact represent an attempt by Mill to translate some of Whewell\'s results into nonmathematical language. However, Whewell\'s demand system is seen to impose a severe constraint to further developments of this model. Copyright 1989 by Scottish Economic Society.'] [' This paper considers the recent shift towards private provision of social security in the United Kingdom, as part of the "twin-pillar" approach of the Conservative government. Emphasis is on the encouragement of personal and occupational pensions, rather than public provision, above a basic minimum, and the transfer of the administration of sickness insurance to employers via the introduction of statutory sick pay. It is found that the new arrangements are difficult to rationalize in terms of standard economic arguments concerning public and private provision. The new arrangements have been introduced without adequate analysis of redistributive and labor-market implications. The sick pay scheme has, in addition, introduced a potential problem of employer moral hazard. Copyright 1989 by Scottish Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["The recognition that trade unions are more likely to be concerned with the level of post-tax real wages of their members, rather than simply the gross wage, has led to a great deal of debate concerning the use of tax policy to affect the supply side of the economy in addition to the more traditional demand side factors. A prime example is the use of tax cuts in an attempt to reduce trade unions wage demands and thereby help in the 'battle' against inflation and unemployment. This type of supply-side argument contrasts with those suggesting that tax cuts can have a significant effect on the supply of labour; for discussion of these issues see Dilnot and Kell (1988) and Brown (1988)."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper examines alternative procedures for estimating Galtonian "regression towards the mean" in the earnings of fathers and sons. A simple life-cycle adjustment, based on an age-earnings profile, is inadequate because of the variation in ages and the fact that the dispersion varies with age. The use of standardized earnings is recommended. When information about earnings profiles for occupations is available, the use of earnings adjusted to a common age is explored, along with the use of an estimate of "lifetime earnings." In each case, differences between cross-sectional and cohort earnings profiles are examined. The alternative approaches are illustrated using data from A. L. Bowley\'s Measurement of Social Phenomena. Copyright 1988 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd and The Victoria University of Manchester'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The internal labor market concept has had a major impact upon economic analysis. In particular, it has prompted economists, to closely examine questions of work effort and motivation, and to recognize that labor is a qualitatively different factor of production from capital. Economists have disagreed, however, on the most appropriate manner in which to integrate the internal labor market into economic theory. Empirical research upon the internal labor market by economists has been minimal, partly reflecting the inappropriateness of conventional economic methods for internal labor market research. It is concluded that there is a need for detailed and disaggregated research on the internal labor market by economists. Copyright 1988 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd and the Board of Trustees of the Bulletin of Economic Research'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']