 ['We propose several connectedness measures built from pieces of variance decompositions, and we argue that they provide natural and insightful measures of connectedness. We also show that variance decompositions define weighted, directed networks, so that our connectedness measures are intimately related to key measures of connectedness used in the network literature. Building on these insights, we track daily time-varying connectedness of major US financial institutions\xe2\x80\x99 stock return volatilities in recent years, with emphasis on the financial crisis of 2007\xe2\x80\x932008.'] [' We introduce the financial economics of market microstructure to the financial econometrics of asset return volatility estimation. In particular, we derive the cross-correlation function between latent returns and market microstructure noise in several leading microstructure environments. We propose and illustrate several corresponding theory-inspired volatility estimators, which we apply to stock and oil prices. Our analysis and results are useful for assessing the validity of the frequently assumed independence of latent price and microstructure noise, for explaining observed cross-correlation patterns, for predicting as-yet undiscovered patterns, and most importantly, for promoting improved microstructure-based volatility empirics and improved empirical microstructure studies. Simultaneously and conversely, our analysis is far from the last word on the subject, as it is based on stylized benchmark models; it comes with a "call to action" for development and use of richer microstructure models in volatility estimation and beyond. Copyright 2013, Oxford University Press.'] ['We propose and illustrate a Markov-switching multifractal duration (MSMD) model for analysis of inter-trade durations in financial markets. We establish several of its key properties with emphasis on high persistence and long memory. Empirical exploration suggests MSMD\xe2\x80\x99s superiority relative to leading competitors.'] ['Using a generalized vector autoregressive framework in which forecast-error variance decompositions are invariant to the variable ordering, we propose measures of both the total and directional volatility spillovers. We use our methods to characterize daily volatility spillovers across US stock, bond, foreign exchange and commodities markets, from January 1999 to January 2010. We show that despite significant volatility fluctuations in all four markets during the sample, cross-market volatility spillovers were quite limited until the global financial crisis, which began in 2007. As the crisis intensified, so too did the volatility spillovers, with particularly important spillovers from the stock market to other markets taking place after the collapse of the Lehman Brothers in September 2008.'] ['We propose and implement a framework for characterizing and monitoring the global business cycle. Our framework utilizes high-frequency data, allows us to account for a potentially large amount of missing observations, and is designed to facilitate the updating of global activity estimates as data are released and revisions become available. We apply the framework to the G-7 countries and study various aspects of national and global business cycles, obtaining three main results. First, our measure of the global business cycle, the common G-7 real activity factor, explains a significant amount of cross-country variation and tracks the major global cyclical events of the past forty years. Second, the common G-7 factor and the idiosyncratic country factors play different roles at different times in shaping national economic activity. Finally, the degree of G-7 business cycle synchronization among country factors has changed over time.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['We derive the class of affine arbitrage-free dynamic term structure models that approximate the widely used Nelson-Siegel yield curve specification. These arbitrage-free Nelson-Siegel (AFNS) models can be expressed as slightly restricted versions of the canonical representation of the three-factor affine arbitrage-free model. Imposing the Nelson-Siegel structure on the canonical model greatly facilitates estimation and can improve predictive performance. In the future, AFNS models appear likely to be a useful workhorse representation for term structure research.'] ['We sketch a framework for monitoring macroeconomic activity in real-time and push it in new directions. In particular, we focus not only on real activity, which has received most attention to date, but also on inflation and its interaction with real activity. As for the recent recession, we find that (1) it likely ended around July 2009; (2) its most extreme aspects concern a real activity decline that was unusually long but less unusually deep, and an inflation decline that was unusually deep but brief; and (3) its real activity and inflation interactions were strongly positive, consistent with an adverse demand shock.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['We construct a framework for measuring economic activity at high frequency, potentially in real time. We use a variety of stock and flow data observed at mixed frequencies (including very high frequencies), and we use a dynamic factor model that permits exact filtering. We illustrate the framework in a prototype empirical example and a simulation study calibrated to the example.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Using a recently-developed measure of financial market spillovers, we provide an empirical analysis of return and volatility spillovers among five equity markets in the Americas: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Mexico and the U.S. The results indicate that both return and volatility spillovers vary widely. Return spillovers, however, tend to evolve gradually, whereas volatility spillovers display clear bursts that often correspond closely to economic events.'] [' We provide a simple and intuitive measure of interdependence of asset returns and/or volatilities. In particular, we formulate and examine precise and separate measures of "return spillovers" and "volatility spillovers". Our framework facilitates study of both non-crisis and crisis episodes, including trends and bursts in spillovers; both turn out to be empirically important. In particular, in an analysis of 19 global equity markets from the early 1990s to the present, we find striking evidence of divergent behaviour in the dynamics of return spillovers vs. volatility spillovers: return spillovers display a gently increasing trend but no bursts, whereas volatility spillovers display no trend but clear bursts. Copyright \xef\xbf\xbd The Author(s). Journal compilation \xef\xbf\xbd Royal Economic Society 2009.'] ['We explore the macro/finance interface in the context of equity markets. In particular, using half a century of Livingston expected business conditions data we characterize directly the impact of expected business conditions on expected excess stock returns. Expected business conditions consistently affect expected excess returns in a statistically and economically significant counter-cyclical fashion: depressed expected business conditions are associated with high expected excess returns. Moreover, inclusion of expected business conditions in otherwise standard predictive return regressions substantially reduces the explanatory power of the conventional financial predictors, including the dividend yield, default premium, and term premium, while simultaneously increasing. Expected business conditions retain predictive power even after controlling for an important and recently introduced non-financial predictor, the generalized consumption/wealth ratio, which accords with the view that expected business conditions play a role in asset pricing different from and complementary to that of the consumption/wealth ratio. We argue that time-varying expected business conditions likely capture time-varying risk, while time-varying consumption/wealth may capture time-varying risk aversion.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' The Svensson generalization of the popular Nelson--Siegel term structure model is widely used by practitioners and central banks. Unfortunately, like the original Nelson--Siegel specification, this generalization, in its dynamic form, does not enforce arbitrage-free consistency over time. Indeed, we show that the factor loadings of the Svensson generalization cannot be obtained in a standard finance arbitrage-free affine term structure representation. Therefore, we introduce a closely related generalized Nelson--Siegel model on which the no-arbitrage condition can be imposed. We estimate this new AFGNS model and demonstrate its tractability and good in-sample fit. Copyright The Author(s). Journal compilation Royal Economic Society 2009'] ['The popular Nelson-Siegel [Nelson, C.R., Siegel, A.F., 1987. Parsimonious modeling of yield curves. Journal of Business 60, 473-489] yield curve is routinely fit to cross sections of intra-country bond yields, and Diebold-Li [Diebold, F.X., Li, C., 2006. Forecasting the term structure of government bond yields. Journal of Econometrics 130, 337-364] have recently proposed a dynamized version. In this paper we extend Diebold-Li to a global context, modeling a potentially large set of country yield curves in a framework that allows for both global and country-specific factors. In an empirical analysis of term structures of government bond yields for the Germany, Japan, the UK and the US, we find that global yield factors do indeed exist and are economically important, generally explaining significant fractions of country yield curve dynamics, with interesting differences across countries.'] ['Using a unique high-frequency futures dataset, we characterize the response of U.S., German and British stock, bond and foreign exchange markets to real-time U.S. macroeconomic news. We find that news produces conditional mean jumps; hence high-frequency stock, bond and exchange rate dynamics are linked to fundamentals. Equity markets, moreover, react differently to news depending on the stage of the business cycle, which explains the low correlation between stock and bond returns when averaged over the cycle. Hence our results qualify earlier work suggesting that bond markets react most strongly to macroeconomic news; in particular, when conditioning on the state of the economy, the equity and foreign exchange markets appear equally responsive. Finally, we also document important contemporaneous links across all markets and countries, even after controlling for the effects of macroeconomic news.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' A growing literature documents important gains in asset return volatility forecasting via use of realized variation measures constructed from high-frequency returns. We progress by using newly developed bipower variation measures and corresponding nonparametric tests for jumps. Our empirical analyses of exchange rates, equity index returns, and bond yields suggest that the volatility jump component is both highly important and distinctly less persistent than the continuous component, and that separating the rough jump moves from the smooth continuous moves results in significant out-of-sample volatility forecast improvements. Moreover, many of the significant jumps are associated with specific macroeconomic news announcements. Copyright by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['Despite powerful advances in yield curve modeling in the last twenty years, comparatively little attention has been paid to the key practical problem of forecasting the yield curve. In this paper we do so. We use neither the no-arbitrage approach, which focuses on accurately fitting the cross section of interest rates at any given time but neglects time-series dynamics, nor the equilibrium approach, which focuses on time-series dynamics (primarily those of the instantaneous rate) but pays comparatively little attention to fitting the entire cross section at any given time and has been shown to forecast poorly. Instead, we use variations on the Nelson-Siegel exponential components framework to model the entire yield curve, period-by-period, as a three dimensional parameter evolving dynamically. We show that the three time-varying parameters may be interpreted as factors corresponding to level, slope and curvature, and that they may be estimated with high efficiency. We propose and estimate autoregressive models for the factors, and we show that our models are consistent with a variety of stylized facts regarding the yield curve. We use our models to produce term-structure forecasts at both short and long horizons encouraging results. In particular, our forecasts appear much more accurate at long horizons than various standard benchmark forecasts.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['We extend range-based volatility estimation to the multivariate case. In particular, we propose a range-based covariance estimator motivated by a key financial economic consideration, the absence of arbitrage, in addition to statistical considerations. We show that this estimator is highly efficient yet robust to the market microstructure noise arising from bid-ask bounce and asynchronous trading.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We consider three sets of phenomena that feature prominently in the financial economics literature: (1) conditional mean dependence (or lack thereof) in asset returns, (2) dependence (and hence forecastability) in asset return signs, and (3) dependence (and hence forecastability) in asset return volatilities. We show that they are very much interrelated and explore the relationships in detail. Among other things, we show that (1) volatility dependence produces sign dependence, so long as expected returns are nonzero, so that one should expect sign dependence, given the overwhelming evidence of volatility dependence; (2) it is statistically possible to have sign dependence without conditional mean dependence; (3) sign dependence is not likely to be found via analysis of sign autocorrelations, runs tests, or traditional market timing tests because of the special nonlinear nature of sign dependence, so that traditional market timing tests are best viewed as tests for sign dependence arising from variation in expected returns rather than from variation in volatility or higher moments; (4) sign dependence is not likely to be found in very high-frequency (e.g., daily) or very low-frequency (e.g., annual) returns; instead, it is more likely to be found at intermediate return horizons; and (5) the link between volatility dependence and sign dependence remains intact in conditionally non-Gaussian environments, for example, with time-varying conditional skewness and/or kurtosis.'] ['We estimate a model that summarizes the yield curve using latent factors (specifically, level, slope, and curvature) and also includes observable macroeconomic variables (specifically, real activity, inflation, and the monetary policy instrument). Our goal is to provide a characterization of the dynamic interactions between the macroeconomy and the yield curve. We find strong evidence of the effects of macro variables on future movements in the yield curve and evidence for a reverse influence as well. We also relate our results to the expectations hypothesis.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We use data obtained from a series of Michigan Surveys of Consumer Attitudes to study stock market beliefs and portfolio choices of individual investors. We find that expected returns over the medium- and long-term horizon appear to be extrapolated from past realized returns. The findings also indicate that a more optimistic assessment of macroeconomic conditions coincides with higher expected returns and lower expected volatility, implying strongly procyclical Sharpe ratios. These results are given added credence by the empirical finding that reported portfolio concentrations in equities tend to be higher for respondents who anticipate higher returns and lower uncertainty. Overall, our empirical results lend support to the hypothesis that equity valuations are lower during recessions--and--subsequent returns are higher--because of undue pessimism about future returns, rather than high risk aversion.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We take a simple time-series approach to modeling and forecasting daily average temperature in U.S. cities, and we inquire systematically as to whether it may prove useful from the vantage point of participants in the weather derivatives market. The answer is, perhaps surprisingly, yes. Time-series modeling reveals conditional mean dynamics, and crucially, strong conditional variance dynamics, in daily average temperature, and it reveals sharp differences between the distribution of temperature and the distribution of temperature surprises. As we argue, it also holds promise for producing the long-horizon predictive densities crucial for pricing weather derivatives, so that additional inquiry into time-series weather forecasting methods will likely prove useful in weather derivatives contexts.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['From a macroeconomic perspective, the short-term interest rate is a policy instrument under the direct control of the central bank. From a finance perspective, long rates are risk-adjusted averages of expected future short rates. Thus, as illustrated by much recent research, a joint macro-finance modeling strategy will provide the most comprehensive understanding of the term structure of interest rates. We discuss various questions that arise in this research, and we also present a new examination of the relationship between two prominent dynamic, latent factor models in this literature: the Nelson-Siegel and affine no-arbitrage term structure models.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['We selectively survey, unify and extend the literature on realized volatility of financial asset returns. Rather than focusing exclusively on characterizing the properties of realized volatility, we progress by examining economically interesting functions of realized volatility, namely realized betas for equity portfolios, relating them both to their underlying realized variance and covariance parts and to underlying macroeconomic fundamentals.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Engle\xe2\x80\x99s footsteps range widely. His major contributions include early work on band-spectral regression, development and unification of the theory of model specification tests (particularly Lagrange multiplier tests), clarification of the meaning of econometric exogeneity and its relationship to causality, and his later stunningly influential work on common trend modeling (cointegration) and volatility modelling (ARCH, short for Auto Regressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity). More generally, Engle\xe2\x80\x99s cumulative work is a fine example of best-practice applied time-series econometrics: he identifies important dynamic economic phenomena, formulates precise and interesting questions about those phenomena, constructs sophisticated yet simple econometric models for measurement and testing, and consistently obtains results of widespread substantive interest in the scientific, policy, and financial communities.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Using a new data set consisting of six years of real-time exchange-rate quotations, macroeconomic expectations, and macroeconomic realizations, we characterize the conditional means of U.S. dollar spot exchange rates. In particular, we find that announcement surprises produce conditional mean jumps; hence high-frequency exchange-rate dynamics are linked to fundamentals. The details of the linkage are intriguing and include announcement timing and sign effects. The sign effect refers to the fact that the market reacts to news in an asymmetric fashion: bad news has greater impact than good news, which we relate to recent theoretical work on information processing and price discovery.'] [' We provide a framework for integration of high--frequency intraday data into the measurement, modeling, and forecasting of daily and lower frequency return volatilities and return distributions. Building on the theory of continuous--time arbitrage--free price processes and the theory of quadratic variation, we develop formal links between realized volatility and the conditional covariance matrix. Next, using continuously recorded observations for the Deutschemark&amp;sol;Dollar and Yen&amp;sol;Dollar spot exchange rates, we find that forecasts from a simple long--memory Gaussian vector autoregression for the logarithmic daily realized volatilities perform admirably. Moreover, the vector autoregressive volatility forecast, coupled with a parametric lognormal--normal mixture distribution produces well--calibrated density forecasts of future returns, and correspondingly accurate quantile predictions. Our results hold promise for practical modeling and forecasting of the large covariance matrices relevant in asset pricing, asset allocation, and financial risk management applications. Copyright The Econometric Society 2003.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["The turmoil in the capital markets in 1997 and 1998 has highlighted the need for systematic stress testing of banks' portfolios, including both their trading and lending books. We propose that underlying macroeconomic volatility is a key part of a useful conceptual framework for stress testing credit portfolios, and that credit migration matrices provide the specific linkages between underlying macroeconomic conditions and asset quality. Credit migration matrices, which characterize the expected changes in credit quality of obligors, are cardinal inputs to many applications, including portfolio risk assessment, modeling the term structure of credit risk premia, and pricing of credit derivatives. They are also an integral part of many of the credit portfolio models used by financial institutions. By separating the economy into two states or regimes, expansion and contraction, and conditioning the migration matrix on these states, we show that the loss distribution of credit portfolios can differ greatly, as can the concomitant level of economic capital to be assigned.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' We propose using the price range in the estimation of stochastic volatility models. We show theoretically, numerically, and empirically that range-based volatility proxies are not only highly efficient, but also approximately Gaussian and robust to microstructure noise. Hence range-based Gaussian quasi-maximum likelihood estimation produces highly efficient estimates of stochastic volatility models and extractions of latent volatility. We use our method to examine the dynamics of daily exchange rate volatility and find the evidence points strongly toward two-factor models with one highly persistent factor and one quickly mean-reverting factor. Copyright The American Finance Association 2002.'] ["The theoretical and empirical econometric literatures on long memory and regime switching have evolved largely independently, as the phenomena appear distinct. We argue, in contrast, that they are intimately related, and we substantiate our claim in several environments, including a simple mixture model, Engle and Lee's (1999) stochastic permanent break model, and Hamilton's (1989) Markov switching model. In particular, we show analytically that stochastic regime switching is easily confused with long memory, even asymptotically, so long as only a small' amount of regime switching occurs, in a sense that we make precise. A Monte Carlo analysis supports the relevance of the theory and produces additional insights.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We propose a measure of predictability based on the ratio of the expected loss of a short-run forecast to the expected loss of a long-run forecast. This predictability measure can be tailored to the forecast horizons of interest, and it allows for general loss functions, univariate or multivariate information sets, and covariance stationary or difference stationary processes. We propose a simple estimator, and we suggest resampling methods for inference. We then provide several macroeconomic applications. First, we illustrate the implementation of predictability measures based on fitted parametric models for several US macroeconomic time series. Second, we analyze the internal propagation mechanism of a standard dynamic macroeconomic model by comparing the predictability of model inputs and model outputs. Third, we use predictability as a metric for assessing the similarity of data simulated from the model and actual data. Finally, we outline several non-parametric extensions of our approach. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2001 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This article considers five broad questions about the fundamental nature of business cycles and surveys relevant recent research. It is a slightly revised version of the introductory chapter to our book, Business Cycles: Durations, Dynamics, and Forecasting (Diebold and Rudebusch 1999). Both the book and this article attempt to place recent empirical business cycle research, and especially our own work, in a broader perspective. In particular, we focus on research that analyzes the durations or lengths of expansions and contractions, the co-movement and dynamics of cyclical variables, and the prediction of macroeconomic fluctuations.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' It depends. If volatility fluctuates in a forecastable way, volatility forecasts are useful for risk management (hence the interest in volatility forecastability in the risk management literature). Volatility forecastability, however, varies with horizon, and different horizons are relevant in different applications. Moreover, existing assessments of volatility forecastability are plagued by the fact that they are joint assessments of volatility forecastability and an assumed model, and the results can vary not only with the horizon but also with the assumed model. To address this problem, we develop a model-free procedure for assessing volatility forecastability across horizons. Perhaps surprisingly, we find that volatility forecastability decays quickly with horizon. Volatility forecastability - although clearly of relevance for risk management at the short horizons relevant for, say, trading desk management - may be much less important at longer horizons. \xc2\xa9 2000 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] [' We study the usefulness of unit-root tests as diagnostic tools for selecting forecasting models. Difference-stationary and trend-stationary models of economic and financial time series often imply very different predictions, so deciding which model to use is tremendously important for applied forecasters. We consider three strategies: always difference the data, never difference, or use a unit-root pretest. We characterize the predictive loss of these strategies for the canonical AR(1) process with trend, focusing on the effects of sample size, forecast horizon, and degree of persistence. We show that pretesting routinely improves forecast accuracy relative to forecasts from models in differences, and we give conditions under which pretesting is likely to improve forecast accuracy relative to forecasts from models in levels.'] [' We provide a framework for evaluating and improving multivariate density forecasts. Among other things, the multivariate framework lets us evaluate the adequacy of density forecasts involving cross-variable interactions, such as time-varying conditional correlations. We also provide conditions under which a technique of density forecast "calibration" can be used to improve deficient density forecasts, and we show how the calibration method can be used to generate good density forecasts from econometric models, even when the conditional density is unknown. Finally, motivated by recent advances in financial risk management, we provide a detailed application to multivariate high-frequency exchange rate density forecasts. \xc2\xa9 2000 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] [' Density forecasting is increasingly more important and commonplace, for example in financial risk management, yet little attention has been given to the evaluation of density forecasts. The authors develop a simple and operational framework for density forecast evaluation. They illustrate the framework with a detailed application to density forecasting of asset returns in environments with time-varying volatility. Finally, the authors discuss several extensions. Copyright 1998 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] ['This paper was presented at the conference "Financial services at the crossroads: capital regulation in the twenty-first century" as part of session 3, "Issues in value-at-risk modeling and evaluation." The conference, held at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on February 26-27, 1998, was designed to encourage a consensus between the public and private sectors on an agenda for capital regulation in the new century.'] [' The authors propose a constructive, multivariate framework for assessing agreement between (generally misspecified) dynamic equilibrium models and data, which enables a complete second-order comparison of the dynamic properties of models and data. They use bootstrap algorithms to evaluate the significance of deviations between models and data, and use goodness-of-fit criteria to produce estimators that optimize economically relevant loss functions. The authors provide a detailed illustrative application to modelling the U.S. cattle cycle. Copyright 1998 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] ['Broadly defined, macroeconomic forecasting is alive and well. Nonstructural forecasting, which is based largely on reduced-form correlations, has always been well and continues to improve. Structural forecasting, which aligns itself with economic theory and hence rises and falls with theory, receded following the decline of Keynesian theory. In recent years, however, powerful new dynamic stochastic general equilibrium theory has been developed and structural macroeconomic forecasting is poised for resurgence.'] [" The authors consider the forecasting of cointegrated variables and they show that, at long horizons, nothing is lost by ignoring cointegration when forecasts are evaluated using standard multivariate forecast accuracy measures. In fact, simple univariate Box-Jenkins forecasts are just as accurate. The authors' results highlight a potentially important deficiency of standard forecast accuracy measures--they fail to value the maintenance of cointegrating relationships among variables--and the authors suggest alternatives that explicitly do so."] [" We generalize the Franke-H\xc3\xa4rdle (1992) spectral-density bootstrap to the multivariate case. The extension is nontrivial and facilitates use of the Franke-H\xc3\xa4rdle bootstrap in frequency-domain econometric work, which often centers on crossvariable dynamic interactions. We document the bootstrap's good finite-sample performance in a small Monte Carlo experiment, and we conclude by highlighting key directions for future research. \xc2\xa9 1998 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technolog"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Motivated by recent developments in the bounded rationality and strategic complementarity literatures, the authors examine an intentionally simple and stylized aggregative economic model, when the assumptions of fully rational expectations and no strategic interactions are relaxed. They show that small deviations from rational expectations, taken alone, lead only to small deviations from classical policy-ineffectiveness, but that the situation can change dramatically when strategic complementarity is introduced. Strategic complementarity magnifies the effects of even small departures from rational expectations, producing equilibria with policy effectiveness, output persistence, and multiplier effects. Copyright 1997 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['Estimates of the response of agricultural supply to movements in expected price display curiously large variation across crops, regions, and time periods. We argue that this anomaly may be traced, at least in part, to the statistical properties of the commonly-used econometric estimator, which has infinite moments of all orders and may have a bimodal distribution. We propose an alternative minimum-expected-loss estimator, establish its improved sampling properties, and argue for its usefulness in the empirical analysis of agricultural supply response.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Two key attributes of a job are its wage and its duration. Much has been made of changes in the wage distribution in the 1980s but little attention has been given to job durations since Robert E. Hall (1972, 1982). The authors fill this void by examining the temporal evolution of job retention rates in U.S. labor markets using data assembled from the sequence of Current Population Survey job tenure supplements. There have been relative declines in job stability for some of the groups that experienced the sharpest declines in relative wages. However, the authors find that aggregate job retention rates have remained stable. Copyright 1997 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['Prediction problems involving asymmetric loss functions arise routinely in many fields, yet the theory of optimal prediction under asymmetric loss is not well developed. We study the optimal prediction problem under general loss structures and characterize the optimal predictor. We compute the optimal predictor analytically in two leading tractable cases and show how to compute it numerically in less tractable cases. A key theme is that the conditionally optimal forecast is biased under asymmetric loss and that the conditionally optimal amount of bias is time varying in general and depends on higher order conditional moments. Thus, for example, volatility dynamics (e.g., GARCH effects) are relevant for optimal point prediction under asymmetric loss. More generally, even for models with linear conditionalmean structure, the optimal point predictor is in general nonlinear under asymmetric loss, which provides a link with the broader nonlinear time series literature.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' In the first half of this century, special attention was given to two features of the business cycle: the comovement of many individual economic series and the different behavior of the economy during expansions and contractions. Recent theoretical and empirical research has revived interest in each attribute separately and the authors survey this work. Notable empirical contributions are dynamic factor models that have a single common macroeconomic factor and nonlinear regime-switching models of a macroeconomic aggregate. The authors conduct an empirical synthesis that incorporates both of these features. Copyright 1996 by MIT Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We make three related contributions. First, we propose a new technique for solving prediction problems under asymmetric loss using piecewise-linear approximations to the loss function, and we establish existence and uniqueness of the optimal predictor. Second, we provide a detailed application to optimal prediction of a conditionally heteroscedastic process under asymmetric loss, the insights gained from which are broadly applicable. Finally, we incorporate our results into a general framework for recursive prediction-based model selection under the relevant loss function. Copyright 1996 by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The authors propose and evaluate explicit tests of the null hypothesis of no difference in the accuracy of two competing forecasts. In contrast to previously developed tests, a wide variety of accuracy measures can be used (in particular, the loss function need not be quadratic and need not even be symmetric) and forecast errors can be non-Gaussian, nonzero mean, serially correlated, and contemporaneously correlated. Asymptotic and exact finite sample tests are proposed, evaluated, and illustrated.'] ['There are two approaches to maximum likelihood (ML) estimation of the parameter of fractionally-integrated noise: approximate frequency-domain ML (Fox and Taqqwu, 1986) and exact time-domain ML (Solwell, 1990a). If the mean of the process is known, then a clear finite-sample mean-squared error (MSE) ranking of the estimators emerges: the exact time-domain estimator has smaller MSE. We show in this paper, however, that the finite-sample efficiency of approximate frequency-domain ML relative to exact time-domain ML rises dramatically when the mean result is unknown and instead must be estimated. The intuition for our result is straightforward: The frequency-domain ML estimator is invariant to the true but unknown mean of the process, while the time-domain ML estimator is not. Feasible time-domain estimation must therefore be based upon de-meaned data, but the long memory associated with fractional integration makes precise estimation of the mean difficult. We conclude that the frequency-domain estimator is an attractive and efficient alternative for situations in which large sample sizes render time-domain estimation impractical.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Richard T. Baillie and Tim Bollerslev (1989) have recently argued that nominal dollar spot exchange rates are cointegrated. Here the authors examine an immediate implication of their finding, namely, that cointegration implies an error-correction representation yielding forecasts superior to those from a martingale benchmark in light of a large earlier literature highlighting the predictive superiority of the martingale. In an out-of-sample forecasting exercise, the authors find the martingale model to be superior. They then perform a battery of improved cointegration tests and find that the evidence for cointegration is much less strong than previously thought, a result consistent with the outcome of the forecasting exercise. Copyright 1994 by American Finance Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Previous investigations of whether the volatility of the U.S. economy diminished after World War II have been inconclusive because of questionable prewar macroeconomic aggregates. We examine, more broadly, the hypothesis of the stabilization of the postwar economy by focusing on the duration of business cycles, rather than their amplitude; in the process, we avoid the debate about the quality of prewar aggregates. Using distribution-free statistics, we find clear evidence of postwar duration stabilization in terms of a shift toward longer expansions and shorter contractions. Moreover, we find no shift in whole-cycle durations, which suggests a reallocation of the business cycle away from contraction and toward expansion.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' In this paper, the authors assert that most studies that have sought to determine the validity of purchasing power parity are flawed for two reasons. First, post-1973 data contain, by definition, only a very limited amount of the low-frequency information relevant for examination of long-run parity. Second, the dynamic econometric techniques used to model deviations from parity are typically quite crude with respect to admissible low-frequency dynamics. Both deficiencies are rectified in the present paper, with dramatic results. With a new longer data set, the authors study deviations from parity using long-memory models that allow for subtle forms of mean reversion. Copyright 1991 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Under common ARIMA representations of income, the permanent-income hypothesis predicts that the volatility of consumption should be larger than the volatility of unanticipated shocks to income; this prediction is not supported by the data. The authors examine whether this apparent excess smoothness of consumption is the result of the ARIMA representation's implicit restrictions on low-frequency dynamics. By using a generalized long-memory stochastic representation, the authors construct confidence intervals for the long-run impulse response of income in the absence of such low-frequency restrictions. These intervals are quite wide and include regions in which excess smoothness vanishes. Copyright 1991 by MIT Press."] [" The relationship between wholesale and retail interest rates since deregulation is of substantial interest to economists and policymakers, because the predictability of the monetary aggregates and their relationship to bank reserves depend on adjustment patterns in the wholesale and retail monetary markets. We provide evidence on the nature of wholesale-retail interest rate relationships by examining the dynamic interactions among two wholesale interest rates (federal funds and six-month treasury bills) and three retail deposit rates (six-month consumer certificates of deposit, money market deposit accounts, and super NOW's). We perform a multivariate time series analysis, with particular attention paid to a causal patterns and the shapes of impulse response functions. A number of stylized facts, related to size of adjustment, speed of adjustment, and pattern of adjustment, are established for the response of retail rates to unanticipated shocks in wholsale rates."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Does the termination probability of a business expansion or contraction increase with age? This question may be formally addressed by analyzing the nature of duration dependence in aggregate economic activity. The author's null hypothesis is that there is no duration dependence, which they test via intentionally nonparametric procedures. They also argue that a common notion of business cycle periodicity can be usefully interpreted in terms of whole-cycle duration dependence. The authors find some evidence for duration dependence in whole cycles and in prewar expansions, but little evidence elsewhere. Copyright 1990 by University of Chicago Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This package performs specialized tasks related to specification, estimation, prediction and diagnostic checking in the context of a particular class of unobserved-components models. It is menu-driven and easy to use. Although the present (first) release suffers from a number of limitations, omissions and bugs, it is nevertheless a useful tool in the hands of a knowledgeable user. Copyright 1989 by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The authors evaluate the ability of the composite index of leading indicators to predict business cycle turning points. Formal probability-assessment scoring rules are applied to turning-point probabilities generated from the leading index via a Bayesian sequential probability recursion. These scoring rules enable rigorous and systematic evaluation of leading indicator forecasts. The results are used to assess the merits of forecasting with the composite leading index and to suggest possible improvements in its construction. Copyright 1989 by the University of Chicago.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']