 ['A break-up of the Eurozone is no longer regarded as implausible. This will be a costly and irreversible decision in conditions of continuing uncertainty; therefore it is amenable to analysis in the real options framework. We do so by solving as an n-dimensional optimal stopping problem with country-specific shocks and \xe2\x80\x9cconvergence\xe2\x80\x9d of member economies. We compare a complete break-up with individual country departures. In calibrated solutions for a symmetric case we find a non-negligible but small option value. Furthermore, we find a new theoretical result on the non-monotonicity of abandonment threshold with respect to volatility.'] ['This essay reviews Lawrence Freedman\'s book "Strategy: A History". The main themes\xe2\x80\x94definitions, strategies in war, business, politics, and revolutions\xe2\x80\x94are overviewed. The value of game-theoretic thinking for practical strategy is assessed. A critical discussion of some concepts and dichotomies emphasized by Freedman, e.g., strategy is governed by the starting point, not the end point, and of the role of stories and scripts in strategy, follows. (JEL A11, A12, C70, D74)'] ['Few aspects of economic policy elicit more conflicting opinions than the role of bureaucracy in policy making and implementation. These range from Max Weber\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x84\xa2s picture of a rule-governed efficient institution to the \xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xcb\x9cYes, Minister\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x84\xa2 caricature of one bound in complex red tape, operating inefficiently and serving the interests of its own officials. In this article, I attempt a better understanding guided by the economics of incentives and organisations. I emphasise the multidimensional complexity of government bureaucracies\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x80\x9dthey are answerable to multiple political principals, must handle multiple tasks, have multiple levels of hierarchy and so on\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x80\x9dand suggest some institutional and organisational reforms that seem relevant for India and other less-developed countries that wish to sustain growth and progress to and beyond a middle-income level.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Paul Samuelson is probably the most important economist of the second half of the twentieth century. His research publications; his introductory textbook; his articles on topical questions of economic policy; and his interactions with numerous students, colleagues, policy makers, and the wider public have all contributed to fundamental changes in economics as a science and as a profession. This article attempts to give a brief overview of his career spanning eight decades and to recapitulate and celebrate his legacy.'] ['The main focus of this review is on international trade and foreign direct investment when the institutions that provide the security of property rights and enforcement of contracts are imperfect. Some issues of national security related to poor governance of international transactions are also considered. The discussion organizes a selective overview of the literature and offers some suggestions for future research.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Democratic and autocratic rulers alike must use a bureaucracy to implement policy. In each case the optimal policy is a second-best solution to this agency problem, giving the bureaucrat some economic rent for information revelation and effort incentive. This paper argues that autocrats are less willing to sacrifice rents, and therefore accept a worse second-best (here less of a public good) than democrats. It also finds a synergistic matching between a democratic ruler and an altruistic bureaucrat who internalizes the citizens' welfare. This synergy is absent for autocrats, but they can gain by extorting from highly altruistic agencies like NGOs."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This article offers a provocative critique of the ability of research on the impact of institutions on growth to offer immediate and practical recommendations for reforming and redesigning institutions in developing countries and transition economies. The literature traces the sources of growth to unalterable historical and geographic features. It contains equally plausible recommendations for opposite courses of action. It is sometimes driven by fads or recommends imitation of the latest success story. Some recommendations are too vague or too general to constitute practical advice. The article suggests a Bayesian diagnostic procedure to identify the causes of economic failure in an individual country as a first step toward remedying the failure. Copyright The Author 2007. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / the world bank . All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org, Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The author suggests methods for teaching game theory at an introductory level, using interactive games to be played in the classroom or in computer clusters, clips from movies to be screened and discussed, and excerpts from novels and historical books to be read and discussed.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Transaction-cost politics views economic policy-making as a political process constrained by asymmetric information and limited commitment possibilities. This paper examines some implications of this perspective for less-developed countries (LDCs) considering policy reform. It emphasizes that success requires reform of the rules and institutions which govern the strategic interaction of the participants in the political game, and that reforms must cope with the special interests and asymmetric information which already exist. In this light, it examines some broad issues of the design of constitutions and institutions (definition and enforcement of property rights, control of inflation, and of government expenditures, federalism, and redistribution), as well as some specific issue of the design of organizations and incentives (problems posed by the interaction of multiple tasks and multiple interests, and their interaction with the limitations on auditing and administration that exists in many LDCs). Copyright Blackwell Publishing Ltd 2003.'] ['Consider a world of traders separated in geographic, economic, or social space. Honest trade offers larger gains for more distant traders, but frequencies of meetings, and information flows about cheating, have local bias. Honesty is self-enforcing only between pairs of sufficiently close neighbors. Global honesty prevails only in a sufficiently small world. The extent of self-enforcing honesty is likely to decrease when the world expands beyond this size. Costly external enforcement is useful only if the world is sufficiently large, and its net payoff need not be larger than that of a self-governing small community. Intermediate-size worlds fare worst.'] ['We consider monetary-fiscal interactions when the monetary authority is more conservative than the fiscal. With both policies discretionary, (1) Nash equilibrium yields lower output and higher price than the ideal points of both authorities, (2) of the two leadership possibilities, fiscal leadership is generally better. With fiscal discretion, monetary commitment yields the same outcome as discretionary monetary leadership for all realizations of shocks. But fiscal commitment is not similarly negated by monetary discretion. Second-best outcomes require either joint commitment, or identical targets for the two authorities - output socially optimal and price level appropriately conservative - or complete separation of tasks.'] [" I consider transactions involving asymmetric prisoners' dilemmas between pairs of players randomly selected from two large populations. Games are played repeatedly, but information about cheating is not adequate to sustain cooperation, and there is no official legal system of contract enforcement. I examine how profit--maximizing private intermediation can supply the information and enforcement. I obtain conditions under which private governance can improve upon no governance, and examine why it fails to achieve social optimality. Copyright The Econometric Society 2003."] [' We extend the theory of common agency to the situation where the principals\' payoffs are affected by their "ex ante" expectations of the agent\'s "ex post" choice. We show how the usual truthful schedules must be modified to account for the rational expectations constraint. We apply the model to a monetary union where member governments influence the policy of the common central bank using incentive contracts. We examine how the outcomes depend on different delegated objectives of the bank, and find that some often-advocated rules create an excessive deflationary bias. Copyright 2003 Royal Economic Society.'] ['The paper begins with a brief overview of the theory of incentives, with special attention to issues that are important in the public sector, in general and human capital in particular. It then reviews some case studies and empirical studies of incentives in the public sector, examining how these studies relate to the theory. Some implications for reform and design of organizations are drawn.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Given a policy rule of the common central bank of a monetary union, member countries with different preferences about inflation and facing asymmetric shocks have different incentives to secure political intervention in the bank's operation and achieve the temporary benefit of surprise inflation. This is modelled as a repeated game, and the most cooperative outcome subject to the countries' incentive compatibility constraints is found. The optimal rule responds flexibly to asymmetric shocks, adjusting policy away from the full commitment level toward the discretionary level, so as to maintain the worse-hit country's incentive to abide by the rule."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The authors reexamine the basic investment problem of deciding when to incur a sunk cost to obtain a stochastically fluctuating benefit. The optimal investment rule satisfies a trade-off between a larger versus a later net benefit; they show that this trade-off is closely analogous to the standard trade-off for the pricing decision of a firm that faces a downward sloping demand curve. The authors reinterpret the optimal investment rule as a markup formula involving an elasticity that has exactly the same form as the formula for a firm's optimal markup of price over marginal cost. This is illustrated with several examples."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We model the electoral politics of redistribution when voters and parties care about inequality in addition to their private concerns for consumption and votes, respectively. Ideological concerns about income redistribution lead each party to adopt a general proportional income tax, adjusted to appeal to the ideological leanings of high "clout" groups, with disproportionately many "swing" voters, which the parties also ply with pork-barrel projects. Our results relate to "Director\'s Law," which says that redistributive politics favors middle classes at the expense of both rich and poor. \xc2\xa9 2000 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] [" The authors develop a model of common agency with complete information and general preferences with nontransferable utility, and they prove that the principals' Nash equilibrium in truthful strategies implements an efficient action. The authors apply this theory to the construction of a positive model of public finance, where organized special interests can lobby the government for consumer and producer taxes or subsidies and targeted lump-sum taxes or transfers. The lobbies use only the nondistorting transfers in their noncooperative equilibrium, but their intergroup competition for transfers turns into a prisoners' dilemma in which the government captures all the gain that is potentially available to the parties. Copyright 1997 by the University of Chicago."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" A firm's stochastic dynamic investment and employment decisions are examined when each of capital and labor has linear adjustment costs of increase and decrease. The analysis generated an endogenous ranking of the two factors as more or less flexible; thus the concepts of short and long runs are endogenized. Qualitative characteristics of the dynamics of the two factors are described. Adjustment of the more flexible factor can occur on its own but that of the less flexible factor occurs less frequently and only in conjunction with a complementary adjustment of the more flexible factor. Copyright 1997 by Royal Economic Society."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper offers an initial exploration of a positive counterpart to the normative Ramsey-Diamond-Mirrlees theory of optimal commodity taxation. A model of lobbying for taxes and subsidies on production and consumption in an open economy is constructed, generalizing the Crossman-Helpman model of protection. It is found that the equilibrium of the lobbying process generally violates aggregate production efficiency, contrary to the normatively optimal policy. The outcome also differs markedly from the model of lobbying for protection: the equilibrium policy involves mostly production subsidies, not import tariffs.'] [" Capital investment decisions must recognize the limitations on the firm's ability to later sell or expand capacity. This paper shows how opportunities for future expansion or contraction can be valued as options, how their valuation relates to the q theory of investment, and their effect on the incentive to invest. Generally, the option to expand reduces the incentive to invest, while the option to disinvest raises it. The authors show how these options determine the effect of uncertainty on investment, how they are changed by shifts of the distribution of future profitability, and how the q-theory and option pricing approaches are related. Coauthors are Avinash K. Dixit, Janice C. Eberly, and Robert S. Pindyck. Copyright 1996, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] ['This paper analyses optimal irreversible investment policy when profits are subject to a multiplicative geometric Brownian motion shock. The marginal product of capital is increasing initially and decreasing thereafter. In the latter range, optimal policy is familiar: capacity is added gradually as the shock rises to a threshold where the expected return on the marginal unit is a required multiple of the cost of capital. The multiple reflects the option value of waiting. The optimal policy in the increasing marginal product range obeys the same multiple, now applied to the total return on the discrete increase in capital. Implications for economic growth, and suboptimal equilibria under external economies, are examined.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Paul Krugman is the winner of the 1991 John Bates Clark Medal, given every two years to "that American economist under forty who is adjudged to have made a significant contribution to economic thought and knowledge." I shall attempt to convey a flavor of Krugman\'s research contributions, grouped into some major themes: product diversity and monopolistically competitive trade; oligopoly and strategic trade policy; the dynamics of trade and exchange rates; and much more. Finally I discuss his brilliant popular book, The Age of Diminished Expectations (1991).'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['It seems that firms behave contrary to the standard economic theory of investment. We observe that firms do not invest as soon a price rises above long-run average cost; instead firms wait until price rises substantially above long-run average cost. On the downside, firms stay in business for lengthy periods while absorbing operating losses, and price can fall substantially below average variable cost without inducing disinvestment or exit. Recent developments in the theory of investment under uncertainty offer an interesting new explanation. The new approach builds on an interesting analogy between real investments and options in financial markets: In the timing of investment, waiting has positive value because time brings more information about the future prospects of a project. This new approach suggests that textbook pictures of the dynamics of a competitive industry need to be substantially redrawn. More generally, it says that a great deal of inertia is optimal when dynamic decisions are being made in an uncertain environment.'] ["We develop a formula for the market value of debt when the borrower's repayment capacity varies stochastically and shortfalls are rolled over. The value of a marginal dollar of nominal claim is an S-shaped function of the ratio of the repayment capacity to the amount of nominal debt. Shifts of this curve are examined in response to changes in the underlying parameters. The calculations bring out conflicts of interest among lenders of differing degrees of seniority. Most surprisingly, junior creditors gain when the loan is rescheduled on terms more favorable to the debtor."] ['When there are collection lags in the tax system, inflation reduces real revenues. This is often offered as an argument for less reliance on the inflation tax. But the optimal rates of other taxes should also be reconsidered in the light of collection lags. When this is done, the focus shifts from the revenues (which can be recouped by changing the rates of these taxes) to the associated costs of collection. In a benchmark case where the average costs of collection are constant, the optimal inflation tax is independent of the collection lag.'] [' Decisions made under ongoing uncertainty and costly reversibility entail a range of the state variable where inaction is optimal, which in turn produces hysteresis--permanent effects of temporary shifts. The range is usually defined by nonlinear equations that need numerical solutions. In this paper, a technique of analytical approximations is developed and applied to two models--menu costs and investment. The resulting explicit solutions help clarify why hysteresis is important even for small irreversibility. In the menu cost model, hysteresis is two orders of magnitude larger than under the Akerlof-Yellen or Mankiw assumptions. Copyright 1991 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' A model of irreversible investment in a competitive industry under demand uncertainty is developed. In the absence of restrictions, investment by itself will keep the price from rising above a natural ceiling that exceeds the long-run average cost by an option value factor. When a lower ceiling is imposed, investment is triggered only by the observation of an even higher "shadow" price. As the imposed ceiling is reduced to the long-run average cost, this shadow price goes to infinity and investment ceases completely. Because investment is depressed, a tighter price ceiling generally leads to a higher long-run average price. Copyright 1991 by University of Chicago Press.'] [' This paper considers a small, open economy with a safe sector and a risky sector. The probability of success in the risky activity differs across individuals and is private information. It is shown that policies that sustain informationally-constrained Pareto optima should not include tariffs. A laissez-faire competitive equilibrium, if it exists, is Pareto optimal. These results contrast with previous literature on the role of tariffs as insurance, where private risk markets are assumed away in an ad hoc manner. Copyright 1989 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] [' A firm\'s entry and exit decisions when the output price follows a random walk are examined. An idle firm and an active firm are viewed as assets that are call options on each other. The solution is a pair of trigger prices for entry and exit. The entry trigger exceeds the variable cost plus the interest on the entry cost, and the exit trigger is less than the variable cost minus the interest on the exit cost. These gaps produce "hysteresis." Numerical solutions are obtained for several parameter values; hysteresis is found to be significant even with small sunk costs. Copyright 1989 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' A competitive industry has established home firms and foreign firms with entry and exit costs. The real exchange rate follows a Brownian motion. Industry equilibrium is determined using methods of option pricing. Entry requires the operating profit to exceed the interest on the entry cost, and similarly for exit. The middle band of rates without entry or exit yields hysteresis; it is found to be very wide for plausible parameter values. The exchange rate pass-through to domestic prices is found to be close to one in the phases where foreign firms enter or exit, and near zero otherwise. Copyright 1989, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This article constructs a model of R&amp;D; with heterogeneous firms. Each firm's probability of success is a function of its sunk and recurrent R&amp;D; expenditures. The social gains from an innovation are not fully captured by the successful firm. The comparison of the social optimum and the market equilibrium involves balancing spillover and crowding effects. Pigovian corrective policies, as well as strategic policies for a subset of colluding firms, are discussed."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Three game theoretic issues of international trade and commercial policy are examined fro m the special perspective of small countries. In oligopolistic market s, the question is when their ability to remain credibly small player s can be an advantage. In negotiations about trade regimes, small cou ntries' gains from various kinds of trade are analyzed, and their abi lity to achieve a better outcome by being more patient is considered. The formation of alliances is briefly examined, where small countrie s can gain if they can become free riders or pivotal voters. Copyright 1987 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics."] [' This paper considers the effect of precommitment in contests where the rivals expend effort to win a prize. With two asymmetric players, it is found that the favorite will commit effort at a higher level than that in a Nash equilibrium without commitment, and the underdog at a lower level. With many players, the absence of an odds -on favorite among the rivals is sufficient to ensure overcommitment by any one player. Applications to sports, oligopoly, and rent seekin g are discussed. Copyright 1987 by American Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In this paper we ask whether a policy of targeted export promotion can raise domestic welfare when several oligopolistic industries all draw on the same scarce factor of production. Our point of departure is one of Cournot duopoly in which a single home firm competes with a single foreign firm in a market outside the horse country. It has been shown previously that when there is only one such industry in an otherwise perfectly competitive world economy, a subsidy policy by the home government transfers profits to the domestic firm, and thereby raises domestic welfare. However,when many such industries (and only these) utilize the same inelastically supplied resource, promotion of one bids up the return to the specific factor, and consequently disadvantages all of the non-targeted industries in their respective duopolistic competitions. Our question then is which industry(s), if any, is worthy of promotion. We find that, when the specific factor is used in fixed proportion to output, and all of the duopolies have similar demand and cost conditions, a policy of free trade is optimal. We identify the conditions for welfare improvement when a single industry is selected for targeting under asymmetric conditions, and also investigate whether a uniform subsidy to all industries in the imperfectly competitive sector will raise domestic welfare.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper analyzes trade in manufactured goods that are produced via a vertical production structure with many stages, where some value is added at each to an intermediate product to yield a good-in-process ready for the next stage. We consider the stage at which a good is traded to be an economically endogenous variable, with comparative advantage determining the pattern of production specialization by stages across countries. We study how endowment changes and policy shifts move the margin of comparative advantage, which thus provides a channel for resource allocation adjustment that is additional to the usual ones of factor substitution and changes in the quantity of output.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["The theory of large-scale entry into an industry is made complicated by its game-theoretic aspects. Even in the simplest case of one established firm facing one prospective entrant, there are some subtle strategic interactions. The established firm's pre-entry decisions can influence the prospective entrant's view of what will happen if he enters, and the established firm will try to exploit this possibility to its own advantage.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper follows recent work on the welfare effects of small perturbations from an initial general equilibrium with some distortions. Dixit (1975) and Hatta (1977) have analysed the one-consumer economy, and found several simple prescriptions for policy changes to improve welfare. Guesnerie (1977) has studied the many-consumer case when constant returns to scale prevail or profits are taxed at 100%. Diewert (1977) considers profits as returns to artifically defined fixed factors, and allows taxation of profits at any specified rates. In both of these last two papers it turns out that the simplicity of welfare-imoroving policies is lost in the many consumer case. Increases inb a Bergson type social welfare function depend very crucially on the distribution of ownership of fixed factors. General formulae mean little, and we must consider very special cases in order to obtain concrete results.Improvements in the Pareto sense are even harder to generate by simple formulae. In this paper I broadly follow the approach of Diewert, but try a different tack by concentrating on the question of when Bergson or Pareto improvement is not possible, thus obtaining local necessary conditions for welfare optimality Pareto efficiency of the initial equilibrium. This approach helps shed new light on aa question that has been much discussed (eg Dasgupta and Stiglitz (1971) and 1972)) : if profit taxation alone can yield enough revenue to finance government expenditures, is it optimal to rely on that alone and leave the commodities untaxed? The approach has added advantages of allowing a naturally paralled treatment of welfare optimality and Pareto efficiency, and of tying together diverse previous models and results.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper analyzes a model of duopoly with fixed costs. Leadership by one "established" firm may yield an outcome in which the second is inactive, but entry prevention is not a prior constraint. We find that two aspects of product differentiation have distinct effects: an absolute advantage in demand for the established firm makes entry harder, but a lower cross-price effect facilitates it. In the basic model we maintain the same quantity after entry. An extension of the model deals with the case where the threat of a predatory output increase after entry is made credible by carrying excess capacity prior to entry.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Recent years have seen a revival of interest in the concept of consumer's surplus. Among the new ideas and methods that have emerged, the use of the expenditure function is particuarly important. Diamond and McFadden (1974) show how it simplifies the discussion of Hicksian notions of the surplus based on compensated demand functions, viz. the compensating and equivalent variations. Seade (1976) and Willig (1976) show that in certain special cases, a simple function relation exists between these compensated surpluses and the conventional 'Marshallian' surplus defined using uncompensated or market demand functions. Willig introduces the ingenious idea of forgetting about the problem of the path-dependence of the Marshallian surplus by making it a convention to choose a particular path by a specified rule, and examines how well this surplus can approximate ont of the Hicksian surpluses. The purpose of this paper is complementary ; we show that the very conditions which make Marshallian surplus path - independent go a long way towards yielding bounds for it in terms of the Hicksian surpluses.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper applies conventional welfare-theoretic methods to study advertising which changes consumer tastes. In a wide range of empirically plausible circumstances, private profitability is seen to be necessary but not sufficient for the social desirability of a small amount of advertising. The market equilibrium level of such advertising is shown to be socially excessive, even when postadvertising tastes are used as the standard for welfare judgments and the monopoly profits resulting from the advertising are included in welfare. Settings of monopoly, oligopoly, and monopolistic competition are examined, and the contention that advertising is excessive is found to be strengthened at each stage.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper studies the determination of the optimum size and arrangement of a monocentric city,. The major consideration is the trade-off between economies of scale in production in the central business district and the diseconomies of congestion in commuter transport. Planned optimum allocations and their decentralized implementation by suitable taxes and transfers are discussed. Rent and density profiles and land use are solved in closed form, and complete numerical solutions are obtained for particular parameter values. It is shown that negative exponential rent and density profiles may not be very good approximations, and that cities of more than a million inhabitants are difficult to justify in the framework considered.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']