 ['We put the current shift in the Beveridge curve into context by examining the behavior of the curve since 1950. Outward shifts in the Beveridge curve have been common occurrences during U.S. recoveries. By itself, the presence of a shift has not been a good predictor of whether the unemployment rate at the end of the expansion following a shift was higher or lower than that in the preceding expansion.'] ['Whenever unemployment stays high for an extended period, it is common to see analyses, statements, and rebuttals about the extent to which the high unemployment is structural, not cyclical. This essay views the Beveridge curve pattern of unemployment and vacancy rates and the related matching function as proxies for the functioning of the labor market and explores issues in that proxy relationship that complicate such analyses. Also discussed is the concept of mismatch.'] ['Whenever unemployment stays high for an extended period, it is common to see analyses, statements, and rebuttals about the extent to which the high unemployment is structural, not cyclical. This brief views the Beveridge curve pattern of unemployment and vacancy rates and the related matching function as proxies for the functioning of the labor market, and explores issues in that proxy relationship that complicates such analyses.'] ['With heterogeneity in both skills and discount factors, the Atkinson- Stiglitz theorem that savings should not be taxed does not hold. In a model with heterogeneity of preferences at each earnings level, introducing a savings tax on high earners or a savings subsidy on low earners increases welfare, regardless of the correlation between ability and discount factor. Extending Emmanuel Saez (2002), a uniform savings tax increases welfare if that correlation is sufficiently high. Key for the results is that types who value future consumption less are more tempted by a lower paid job. Some optimal tax results and empirical evidence are presented. (JEL D14, H21, H24)'] ['Peter A. Diamond delivered his Prize Lecture on 8 December 2010 at Aula Magna, Stockholm University.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper presents the case for tax progressivity based on recent results in optimal tax theory. We consider the optimal progressivity of earnings taxation and whether capital income should be taxed. We critically discuss the academic research on these topics and when and how the results can be used for policy recommendations. We argue that a result from basic research is relevant for policy only if 1) it is based on economic mechanisms that are empirically relevant and first order to the problem, 2) it is reasonably robust to changes in the modeling assumptions, and 3) the policy prescription is implementable (i.e, is socially acceptable and not too complex). We obtain three policy recommendations from basic research that satisfy these criteria reasonably well. First, very high earners should be subject to high and rising marginal tax rates on earnings. Second, low-income families should be encouraged to work with earnings subsidies, which should then be phased-out with high implicit marginal tax rates. Third, capital income should be taxed. We explain why the famous zero marginal tax rate result for the top earner in the Mirrlees model and the zero capital income tax rate results of Chamley and Judd, and Atkinson and Stiglitz are not policy relevant in our view.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Pension systems have wide-ranging and important effects. They influence the living standards of older people and hence the welfare of both older people and their children. They can also affect national economic performance through potential effects on the labor supply and saving. The design of pensions therefore matters. In discussing the topic, this paper draws on two of our earlier works. It starts by setting out some central lessons from economic theory. Then we derive some policy implications of particular relevance to Latin America.'] ['Pension benefit rules depend on individual history far more than taxes do, and age plays a much larger role in pension determination than in tax determination. Apart from some simulation studies, theoretical studies of optimal tax design typically contain neither a mandatory pension system nor the behavioral dimensions that lie behind justifications commonly offered for mandatory pensions. Conversely, optimizing models of pension design typically do not include annual taxation of labor and capital incomes. After spelling out this contrast and reviewing (and rejecting) zero taxation of capital income based on the Atkinson- Stiglitz and Chamley-Judd results, this article raises the issue of tax-favored retirement savings, a topic where the two subjects come together.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['[fre] Pensions for an Aging Population After presenting the Gruber- Wise analysis showing a strong effect on retirement of implicit taxes from pension rules, it is shown that there is no effect of these implicit taxes on unemployment. This supports the argument for avoiding high implicit taxes on continued work. Also discussed are methods for adjusting benefits and taxes for increases in life expectancy, with particular attention to increasing "the retirement age". Calculations are presented showing the decreases in benefits for an increase in the normal retirement age in the US and the years of service for a full benefit in France.'] [' This paper sets out the economic analytics of pensions. After introductory discussion, successive sections consider the effects of different pension arrangements on labour markets, on national savings and growth, and on the distribution of burdens and benefits. These areas are controversial and politically highly salient. While we are open about expressing our own views, the main purpose of the paper is to set out the analytical process by which we reach them, to enable readers to form their own conclusions. Copyright 2006, Oxford University Press.'] [' This essay describes the current debate on reforming Social Security in the US, along with a brief description of how the programme works. Along the way it comments on the quality of some reform proposals as well as their political standing. Where issues are similar, some inferences are drawn for the UK. While the focus of this essay is the political debate, the debate and my analysis do draw on the academic literature, which is not surprising since academics have played a number of roles in the debate, making reform proposals, being on and staffing the commission appointed by President Bush, and working for the Bush administration. Copyright 2006 Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Social Security is one of America\xc2\x92s most successful government programs. It has helped millions of Americans avoid poverty in old age. To be sure, the program faces a long-term deficit and is in need of updating. But Social Security\xc2\x92s long-term financial health can be restored: the projected deficit is small enough that it can be eliminated through a progressive reform that combines modest benefit reductions and revenue increases.'] ["Social Security is one of America's most successful government programs. It has helped millions of Americans avoid poverty in old age. To be sure, the program faces a long-term deficit and is in need of updating. But Social Security's long-term financial health can be restored: the projected deficit is small enough that it can be eliminated through a progressive reform that combines modest benefit reductions and revenue increases."] ['Advancing annuity demand theory, we present sufficient conditions for the optimality of full annuitization under market completeness which are substantially less restrictive than those used by Menahem E. Yaari (1965). We examine demand with market incompleteness, finding that positive annuitization remains optimal widely, but complete annuitization does not. How uninsured medical expenses affect demand for illiquid annuities depends critically on the timing of the risk. A new set of calculations with optimal consumption trajectories very different from available annuity income streams still shows a preference for considerable annuitization, suggesting that limited annuity purchases are plausibly due to psychological or behavioral biases.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper explores the general-equilibrium impact of social security portfolio diversification into private securities, either through the trust fund or private accounts. The analysis depends critically on heterogeneities in saving, production, assets, and taxes. Limited diversification weakly increases interest rates, reduces the expected return on short-term investment (and the equity premium), decreases safe investment, increases risky investment, and increases a suitably weighted social welfare function. However, the effects on aggregate investment, long-term capital values, and the utility of young savers hinges on assumptions about technology. Aggregate investment and long-term asset values can move in opposite directions. (JEL H55)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["We extend Arrow's analysis of portfolio choice in a one-period model to savings and portfolio choice in a two-period model.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['The President\'s Commission to Strengthen Social Security proposed three plans for reforming Social Security. All of them would create individual accounts financed by diverting funds from the Social Security Trust Fund. One of the three Commission proposals (Model 1) would not restore long-term balance to Social Security. This paper focuses on the other two proposals - Models 2 and 3 - which would restore long-term balance. Models 2 and 3 contain a number of elements and are quite complicated. To understand the plans, we describe their proposed changes to Social Security benefits (which we refer to as "traditional benefits"), the individual accounts that the plans would establish, the combined effect on retirement income from the changes in traditional Social Security benefits and the individual accounts, and the impact on Social Security financing and the rest of the budget.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper focuses on Social Security benefit claiming behavior, a takeup decision that has been ignored in the previous literature. Using financial calculations and simulations based on an expected utility maximization model, we show that delaying benefit claim for a period of time after retirement is optimal in a wide variety of cases and that gains from delay may be significant. We find that approximately 10% of men retiring before their 62nd birthday delay claiming for at least one year after eligibility. We estimate hazard and probit models using data from the New Beneficiary Data System to test four cross-sectional predictions. While the data suggest that too few men delay, we find that the pattern of delays by early retirees is generally consistent with the hypotheses generated by our theoretical model.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Justifications for the use of punitive damages refer to deterrence and punishment. After formulating a social welfare function that incorporates both economic efficiency and a desire for retribution, optimal punitive damages are considered to balance concerns for economic efficiency and for retribution. This optimal balancing is considered where compensatory damages alone provide the correct level of deterrence, allowing the ideal retribution to vary with the level of wealth and with the level of precaution. The analysis is extended to situations where some accidents do not result in liability. Copyright 2002, Oxford University Press.'] ["Social security systems are being reviewed and changed in many countries around the world. This nontechnical book considers some of the key policy issues for design of a social security reform, as well as reviewing much of the academic literature on the positive and normative aspects of social security. In the first chapter, Diamond's examination of key policy issues of general concern includes the funding of social security, the comparison of defined benefit and defined contribution systems, notional defined contribution accounts, alternative approaches to organizing individual defined contribution accounts, and the provision of survivor benefits. Diamond turns then to the academic literature on the interactions between social security and the labor and capital markets, providing a non-technical overview of the existing literature and pointing-out gaps in current research findings. Chapter Two reviews the impact on retirement decisions of forced savings, the use of an earnings or retirement test, mandated annuitization, recognizing heterogeneity in both life expectancy and possibly in risk classification for annuity pricing, and treatment of the family, particularly the use of joint-life annuitization. Also reviewed is the impact on labor supply at younger ages, considering mandatory savings and annuitization, contrasting defined benefit and defined contribution systems, and analysing alternative approaches to redistribution within social security. The final chapter covers issues of aggregate capital accumulation and risk-sharing, with the latter including the risks in annuitization, in the returns to capital, and in aggregate earnings. Also considered are the risks in the political process.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Using the Mirrlees optimal income tax model with quasi-linear preferences, the paper examines conditions for marginal tax rates to be rising at high income levels and declining in an interval containing the modal skill. It examines conditions for the marginal tax rate to be higher at a low skill level than at the high skill level with the same density--an argument only holding for skill levels above a cutoff where resources of a worker are marginally of the same value as resources of the government. Data on earnings rates are presented. Copyright 1998 by American Economic Association.'] [" The term 'money illusion' refers to a tendency to think in terms of nominal rather than real monetary values. Money illusion has significant implications for economic theory, yet it implies a lack of rationality that is alien to economists. This paper reviews survey questions regarding people's reactions to variations in inflation and prices, designed to shed light on the psychology that underlies money illusion. The authors propose that people often think about economic transactions in both nominal and real terms, and that money illusion arises from an interaction between these representations, which results in a bias toward a nominal evaluation. Copyright 1997, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Public provision of pensions to the general population comes in a variety of forms. Systems designed around a benefit formula and systems designed around a contribution rate differ in their economic implications and differ in their political settings. Canada has a defined benefit system with fallback automatic adjustment of tax rates. This paper contrasts the Canadian system with the Chilean (privatized) defined contribution system which has received a great deal of attention worldwide. The paper discusses three approaches to cutting benefits if the currently anticipated tax increase is larger than is desired.'] ['Considers how generational accounting can be used to compare the impact of alternative government policies on people born into different generations.'] ['This paper discusses five proposed changes in Social Security: indexing the normal retirement age to life expectancy (as Sweden is doing); investing part of the trust funds in private securities; partial privatization (as has been proposed by Senators Kerrey and Simpson, Sweden is doing and Mexico has done); replacing Social Security by individually mandated savings (as was done in Chile in 1981); and mandating employer provided retirement savings (as recently legislated in Australia and is effectively the case in some European countries.) The economics of Social Security and the politics of restoring (and preserving) actuarial balance are discussed.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Without market outcomes for comparison, internal consistency tests, particularly adding-up tests, are needed for credibility. When tested, contingent valuation has failed. Proponents find surveys tested poorly done. To the authors' knowledge, no survey has passed these tests. The 'embedding effect' is the similarity of willingness-to-pay responses that theory suggests (and sometimes requires) be different. This problem has long been recognized but not solved. The authors conclude that current methods are not suitable for damage assessment or benefit-cost analysis. They believe the problems come from an absence of preferences, not a flaw in survey methodology, making improvement unlikely."] ["Under the Clinton proposal, states choose a single payer or large regional alliances, where individuals choose from all plans in the market. This should give the high administrative costs of individual choice, not those of group choice. States should have another option--small alliances offering limited, group-based choice. Clinton proposes comprehensive insurance for all, with courts enforcing coverage for all medically necessary services not explicitly excluded. Covered services are not coordinated with resources available. Eventually, rationing will be needed. Less comprehensive basic coverage is an additional tool for rationing and decreases the government's role in determining health spending."] [' This paper examines the effects of the composition of unemployment on wage determination. It explores the implication of one central assumption: firms hire the worker who has been unemployed for the least amount of time. By embodying this assumption in a model of the labor market with job creation/destruction and matching, the joint behavior of unemployment, the distribution of unemployment durations, and wages are characterized. The implication that the reemployment prospects of employed workers, were they to become unemployed, are better than those of the currently unemployed appears to have been an important feature of European unemployment experience in the 1980s. Copyright 1994 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] [' This paper examines equilibrium in a market with free entry where consumers search and firms set prices on individual units of the commodity. The prices attached to newly produced goods are continuously adjusted. Prices attached to previously produced goods can only be changed at a cost. Thus, inflation reduces the real price of goods in inventory awaiting sale. The presence of previously priced goods lowers the reservation price of customers. Thus, inflation cut s into the market power created by the need to search for the good. Consumer welfare is inverse U-shaped in inflation with a strictly positive optimal inflation rate. Copyright 1993 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] [' This paper presents a new approach to organizing universal health insurance. First, the government divides the entire population into many large groups. Then, the government creates a federal health insurance system (HealthFed), modeled on the Federal Reserve System, to fill the role now played by the benefits office of a large firm. The HealthFed would create a short menu of alternatives, solicit bids for insuring the entire group, and price alternatives. There would be redistribution between groups and pricing of alternatives to reflect optimal social insurance principles. There would be no connection between health insurance and employment. Copyright 1992 by The Econometric Society.'] ['The "flow approach" to labor markets builds up from the flows of workers and of jobs. It is based on three essential components, a specification of labor demand in terms of flows of job creation/destruction, a process of matching between workers and firms, and a process of wage determination where wages depend on the labor market prospects of employed workers and firms, We think that this approach gives the right basic picture of unemployment and unemployment dynamics, and of the relation between wage movements and the state of the labor market. The additional richness it naturally delivers also captures important implications of labor market mechanisms for macroeconomics. Finally, its structure is realistic enough to allow for a productive interaction with - and use of - micro-work and micro-evidence in both labor and product markets. This paper shows the structure of the approach and some of its implications. The first section develops a barebone model; the second adds the flesh.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Presents a correction to an article on rational expectations in business cycles.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The authors analyze a continuous time model with a Walrasian labor market and a random search retail market with prices set on a take-it or leave-it basis. The equilibrium distribution of money holdings is the asymptotic steady state of this stochastic process. There is a unique uniform price steady state equilibrium. The faster the search process the higher the absolute price, wage, and real wage. The instantaneous effect of an equal per capita infusion of money is to raise the price, wage, real wage, and transactions rate. The immediate post-infusion price and wage can overshoot their new asymptotic values. Copyright 1990 by The Econometric Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The authors examine the rational expectations equilibrium paths of the model of search and barter in Peter A. Diamond\'s "Aggregate Demand Management in Search Equilibrium" (1982). For some initial positions, there are two equilibrium paths converging to different steady states, with the high-activity path Pareto-dominating the low-activity path. With some parameters, there is also a continuum of equilibrium paths converging to another steady state. Moreover, there can be cycles that are equilibrium paths, even though the environment is stationary. Copyright 1989 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We study the steady-state equilibrium of models where individuals meet pairwise in a costly stochastic search process and negotiate contracts to product output. Different meetings yield different outputs, and so an individual in a contract may wish to continue search to find a better match. If he is successful, he will break his original contract. In anticipation of possible breaches, contracts may provide for compensation to be paid to the breached-against partner. We examine the effects that several alternative damage rules have on equilibrium search and breach behavior.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Most analyses of equilibrium with imperfect information have assumed that individuals know the distribution of possibilities in the market. When individuals do not know the distribution, marginal cost pricing is not generally optimal. In a two-price example it is shown that individuals with correct Dirichlet priors tend to search too little when they adjust their beliefs in response to observations. In a fairly general static partial equilibrium model, the derivatives of social welfare with respect to pricing and advertising are related to market characteristics. Different situations are described where there are social gains from increases or decreases in both the price and the level of selling effort.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' It is feasible in some competitive equilibria with externalities to shift some externality costs among different agents in the economy. However, simply shifting costs will not, in general, result in efficient allocation decisions by all agents, since the magnitude of externality costs depends on the decisions of several agents. Comparing different resource allocations arising from two different patterns of cost bearing is thus a comparison of two inefficient equilibria. This paper explores several sets of assumptions which are sufficient to determine which allocation is more efficient. These assumptions help to identify the agent Calabresi has called the cheapest cost avoider.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This article examines the effects from introducing a "frictionless" legal system into a model of competitive equilibrium with externalities. In a traditional negligence-contributory negligence legal system, there are two important legal parameters under "due care" standards. This paper relates the different equilibria which can occur to the levels of the "due care" standards.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Pricing congested facilities above marginal production cost is a conventional approach to improving resource allocation. Where everyone is producing the same externality, a uniform price (in excess of marginal cost by the value of the externality) permits the competitive equilibrium to be Pareto optimal. Where individuals give rise to different externalities, but a uniform price is in effect, we have a second-best situation. When demands depend only on price, price should exceed marginal cost by a weighted average of externalities generated, the weights being the price derivatives of demand. When demands also depend on congestion, the optimal price generally diverges from this rule. The price should be lower when the individuals giving large external diseconomies per unit demanded tend to be price insensitive and congestion sensitive in their demands (relative to the average). In this case public expenditures to decrease congestion directly should not be carried to the point where the marginal direct benefit from congestion reduction equals the marginal cost. Optimal income distribution is also examined.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']