 ['The United States\xe2\x80\x99 wars in Afghanistan and Iraq have revived again the phenomenon of \xe2\x80\x9cregime change\xe2\x80\x9d that was thought to have died with the Cold War. We study Cold War \xe2\x80\x9cregime changes\xe2\x80\x9d for insight, although of course they do not extrapolate exactly to modern events. The recent declassification of Cold War documents now makes it possible to develop a new time series cross section dataset of superpower interventions during the Cold War which takes account of interventions by the secret services. We find that US interventions to prop up a leader are associated with significant short term and medium term declines in democracy in the intervened country. We observe a similar size effect for Soviet interventions, but they are not robustly significant like US interventions. Although the negative effect of interventions dissipates once the intervention ends, an intervention has a large effect on democracy when it lasts for a long time.'] ['We provide evidence that increased political influence, arising from CIA interventions during the Cold War, was used to create a larger foreign market for American products. Following CIA interventions, imports from the US increased dramatically, while total exports to the US were unaffected. The surge in imports was concentrated in industries in which the US had a comparative disadvantage, not a comparative advantage. Our analysis is able to rule out decreased trade costs, changing political ideology, and an increase in US loans and grants as alternative explanations. We provide evidence that the increased imports arose through direct purchases of American products by foreign governments. (JEL D72, F14, F54, N42, N72)'] ['Artificial states are those in which political borders do not coincide with a division of nationalities desired by the people on the ground. We propose and compute for all countries in the world two new measures how artificial states are. One is based on measuring how borders split ethnic groups into two separate adjacent countries. The other one measures how straight land borders are, under the assumption the straight land borders are more likely to be artificial. We then show that these two measures seem to be highly correlated with several measures of political and economic success.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Foreign aid critics, supporters, recipients, and donors have produced eloquent rhetoric on the need for better aid practices\xe2\x80\x94has this translated into reality? This paper attempts to monitor the best and worst of aid practices among bilateral, multilateral, and UN agencies. We create aid practice measures based on aid transparency, specialization, selectivity, ineffective aid channels, and overhead costs. We rate donor agencies from best to worst on aid practices. We find that the UK does well among bilateral agencies, the US is below average, and Scandinavian donors do surprisingly poorly. The biggest difference is between the UN agencies, who mostly rank in the bottom half of donors, and everyone else. Average performance of all agencies on transparency, fragmentation, and selectivity is still very poor. The paper also assesses trends in best practices over time\xe2\x80\x94we find modest improvement in transparency and more in moving away from ineffective channels. However, we find no evidence of improvements (and partial evidence of worsening) in specialization, fragmentation, and selectivity, despite escalating rhetoric to the contrary.'] ["We assemble a dataset on technology adoption in 1000 bc, 0 ad, and 1500 AD for the predecessors to today's nation states. Technological differences are surprisingly persistent over long periods of time. Our most interesting, strong, and robust results are for the association of 1500 AD technology with per capita income and technology adoption today. We also find robust and significant technological persistence from 1000 BC to 0 AD, and from 0 AD to 1500 AD. The evidence is consistent with a model where the cost of adopting new technologies declines sufficiently with the current level of adoption. (JEL N10, O33, O47)"] ['In the new millennium, the Western aid effort toward Africa has surged due to writings by well-known economists, a celebrity mass advocacy campaign, and decisions by Western leaders to make Africa a major foreign policy priority. This survey contrasts the predominant "transformational" approach (West comprehensively saves Africa) to occasional swings to a "marginal" approach (West takes one small step at a time to help individual Africans). Evaluation of "one step at a time" initiatives is generally easier than that of transformational ones either through controlled experiments (although these have been oversold) or simple case studies where it is easier to attribute outcomes to actions. We see two themes emerge from the literature survey: (1) escalation -- as each successive Western transformational effort has yielded disappointing results (as judged at least by stylized facts, since again the econometrics are shaky), the response has been to try an even more ambitious effort and (2) the cycle of ideas -- rather than a progressive testing and discarding of failed ideas, we see a cycle in aid ideas in many areas in Africa, with ideas going out of fashion only to come back again later after some lapse long enough to forget the previous disappointing experience. Both escalation and cyclicality of ideas are symptomatic of the lack of learning that seems to be characteristic of the "transformational" approach. In contrast, the "marginal" approach has had some successes in improving the well-being of individual Africans, such as the dramatic fall in mortality.'] ['The Schelling model of a \xc2\x93tipping point" in racial segregation, in which whites flee a neighborhood once a threshold of nonwhites is reached, is a canonical model of strategic interdependence. The idea of \xc2\x93tipping" explaining segregation is widely accepted in the academic literature and popular media. I use census tract data for metropolitan areas of the U.S. from 1970 to 2000 to test the predictions of the Schelling model and find that this particular model of strategic interaction largely fails the tests. There is more \xc2\x93white flight" out of neighborhoods with a high initial share of whites than out of more racially mixed neighborhoods.'] ['Summary Those involved in the millennium development goal (MDG) campaign routinely state "Africa will miss all the MDGs." This paper argues that a series of arbitrary choices made in defining "success" or "failure" as achieving numerical targets for the MDGs made attainment of the MDGs less likely in Africa than in other regions even when its progress was in line with or above historical or contemporary experience of other regions. The statement that "Africa will miss all the MDGs" thus has the unfortunate effect of making African successes look like failures.'] ['A Planner vs. Searcher paradigm is used to illustrate the lack of positive progress in aid to African agriculture. Planners announce good intentions, raise expectations, but take on no responsibility in meeting them; they determine what to supply, apply global blueprints but lack knowledge of the basics. Searchers find out what the reality is at bottom, find out what is in demand, find things that work, and accept responsibility for their actions. The prevalent approach in African Agricultural aid has been that of the Planners, but the ambitious agricultural development plans advocated have largely failed. Aid agencies could play a much more helpful role by working as Searchers rather than Planners, which means trial and error experimentation, rigorous independent evaluation, and drawing on local knowledge rather than presuming that the answers coming from outside are the best.'] ['This is our reply to Brendan Beare\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x84\xa2s comment on our paper. While we find his criticism to be both valid and helpful, a modified version of our original model still confirms that a low elasticity of substitution between capital and labor doomed the Soviet strategy of extensive growth through capital accumulation.'] ['A large research program in economics has established a persuasive link between institutions and economic development. But what does this imply for development policymaking? Can a political leader or aid agency seeking to promote development readily change institutions? This article starts off wildly general, and then moves to specifics.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' When growth-promoting spending is cut so much that the present value of future government revenues falls by more than the immediate improvement in the cash deficit, fiscal adjustment becomes like walking up the down escalator. Although short-term cash flows matter, too tight a focus on them encourages governments to invest too little. Cash-flow targets also encourage governments to shift investment spending off budget by seeking private investment in public projects, irrespective of its real fiscal or economic benefits. To deal with this problem, some observers have suggested excluding certain investments (such as those undertaken by public enterprises deemed commercial or financed by multilaterals) from cash-flow targets. These stopgap remedies may help protect some investments, but they do not provide a satisfactory solution to the underlying problem. Governments can more effectively reduce the biases created by the focus on short-term cash flows by developing indicators of the long-term fiscal effects of their decisions, including accounting and economic measures of net worth, and, where appropriate, including such measures in fiscal targets or even fiscal rules. Copyright The Author 2008. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / the world bank . All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org, Oxford University Press.'] ['This paper does not address the issue of aid effectiveness -- that is, the extent to which foreign aid dollars actually achieve their goals -- but on "best practices" in the way in which official aid is given, an important component of the wider debate. First we discuss best practice for an ideal aid agency and the difficulties that aid agencies face because they are typically not accountable to their intended beneficiaries. Next we consider the transparency of aid agencies and four additional dimensions of aid practice: specialization, or the degree to which aid is not fragmented among too many donors, too many countries, and too many sectors for each donor); selectivity, or the extent to which aid avoids corrupt autocrats and goes to the poorest countries; use of ineffective aid channels such as tied aid, food aid, and technical assistance; and the overhead costs of aid agencies. We compare 48 aid agencies along these dimensions, distinguishing between bilateral and multilateral ones. Using the admittedly limited information we have, we rank the aid agencies on different dimensions of aid practice and then provide one final comprehensive ranking. We present these results as an illustrative exercise to move the aid discussion forward.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' "The record of the aid agencies over time seems to indicate weak evidence of progress in response to learning from experience, new knowledge, or changes in political climate. The few positive results are an increased sensitivity to per capita income of the recipient (although it happened long ago), a decline in the share of food aid, and a decline in aid tying. Most of the other evidence - increasing donor fragmentation, unchanged emphasis on technical assistance, little or no sign of increased selectivity with respect to policies and institutions, the adjustment lending-debt relief imbroglio - suggests an unchanged status quo, lack of response to new knowledge, and repetition of past mistakes." Copyright (c) CEPR, CES, MSH, 2007.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We present evidence that measures of "social cohesion," such as income inequality and ethnic fractionalization, endogenously determine institutional quality, which in turn causally determines growth. Copyright 2006 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] [' The classic narrative of economic development\xe2\x80\x94poor countries are caught in poverty traps, out of which they need a Big Push involving increased investment, leading to a takeoff in per capita income\xe2\x80\x94has been very influential in foreign aid debates since the 1950s. This was the original justification for foreign aid. The narrative lost credibility for a while but has made a big comeback in the new millennium. Once again it is invoked as a rationale for large foreign aid programs. This paper applies very simple tests to the various elements of the narrative. Evidence to support the narrative is scarce. Poverty traps in the sense of zero growth for low-income countries are rejected by the data in the whole period 1950\xe2\x80\x932001 and for most sub-periods. The poorest quintile also does not have significant negative growth of the relative income ratio to the world\xe2\x80\x99s richest country over 1950\xe2\x80\x932001, nor is relative growth for the lowest quintile significantly different than other quintiles. The claim that \xe2\x80\x9cwell-governed poor nations\xe2\x80\x9d are caught in poverty traps is rejected by simple regressions that control for both initial income and quality of government (instrumenting for the latter). The idea of the takeoff also does not garner much support in the data. Takeoffs are rare in the data, most plausibly limited to the Asian success stories. Even then, the takeoffs are not associated with aid, investment, or education spending as the standard narrative would imply. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2006'] ['Much of the current popular debate about foreign aid is based on the assumption that the poorest countries are in a poverty trap. The usual mechanisms suggested to explain the poverty trap are inadequate saving and increasing returns to investment, and foreign aid is offered as a way to escape poverty traps. How do these explanations for low growth of the poorest countries fare against alternative explanations, such as bad government and institutions? Preliminary results indicate that the poorest countries grow more slowly than the rest only during some time periods (especially recent ones), but not others. Bad government is the main explanation of the slower growth in these periods rather than the conventional mechanisms for the poverty trap, which in turn would suggest a different role for foreign aid.'] ['Only for the recipients of foreign aid is something akin to central planning seen as a way to achieve prosperity. The end of poverty is achieved with free markets and democracy\xe2\x80\x94where decentralized \xe2\x80\x9csearchers\xe2\x80\x9d look for ways to meet individual needs\xe2\x80\x94not Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs) to achieve Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The PRSPs and MDGs create lots of bureaucracy but hold no one specific agency in foreign aid accountable for any one specific task. Planners in foreign aid use the old failed models of the past\xe2\x80\x94the \xe2\x80\x9cFinancing Gap\xe2\x80\x9d, the \xe2\x80\x9cpoverty trap\xe2\x80\x9d, the government-to-government aid model; and the \xe2\x80\x9cexpenditures = outcomes\xe2\x80\x9d mentality. Searchers in foreign aid would imitate the feedback and accountability of markets and democracy to provide goods and services to individuals until homegrown markets and democracy end poverty in the society as a whole. An example of the more promising \xe2\x80\x9csearchers\xe2\x80\x9d approach in foreign aid is 2006 Nobel Peace Laureate Mohammad Yunus and Grameen Bank.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["One feature of adjustment loans that has been often overlooked in their evaluation is their frequent repetition to the same country, with such extremes as the 30 IMF and World Bank adjustment loans to Argentina over 1980-99 or the 26 adjustment loans to Cote d'Ivoire and Ghana. The rate of repetition remains high and non-decreasing as cumulative adjustment loans increases. Repetition changes the nature of the selection problem, with the possible implication that new loans had to be given because earlier loans were not effective. Seventeen out of the eighteen countries that were IDA in 1980 and were in the top half of adjustment loans received became eligible for HIPC debt relief, compared to less than 50 percent of the IDA countries in the bottom half of adjustment lending -- again suggesting that previous loans were not effective at generating the growth necessary to service the debt. There were relative successes and failures, but none of the top 20 recipients of adjustment lending over 1980-99 were able to achieve reasonable growth and contain all policy distortions. Policies improved unevenly as adjustment loans accumulated, and even those policies that improved show a nonlinear satiation point after a certain number of adjustment loans is reached. An overall indicator of severe macroeconomic policy distortion does not improve as the number of adjustment loans increases in the overall sample, with about half the adjustment loan recipients showing severe distortions regardless of the number of cumulative adjustment loans. An instrumental variables regression for estimating the causal effect of repeated adjustment lending on policies shows a significant but small improvement for some macro policies, but none for others. None of the techniques in the paper is able to identify a growth effect, positive or negative, of repeated adjustment lending. The findings of this paper are in line with the foreign aid literature that shows that aid does not discriminate between <p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Models of trade and factor flows based on differences in factor endowments give clear predictions as to how globalization affects inequality and development. Models in which productivity differences between countries drive trade and factor flows gave more ambiguous predictions. Unfortunately, productivity differences seem necessary to understand many, though not all, "big picture" globalization, inequality, and development outcomes. The factor endowment predictions help give us insight into how the North Atlantic economy achieved decreasing inequality between countries in the last five decades. They also give us insight into the great migration of Europeans from the land-scarce Old World to the land-abundant New World in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, accompanied by the predicted movements in land rental/wage ratios. However, productivity differences appear to be an important facet of many globalization, inequality, and development episodes. In the Old Globalization era, they seem to be crucial to understand the lack of convergence between North Atlantic economies, the great divergence between rich and poor countries in that same era, and the bias of capital flows toward rich countries. In the New Globalization era, productivity differences are important to capture the very different performance of poor country regions in recent decades, the flow of all factors of production toward the rich countries, the low returns to physical and human capital in many poor countries, and the "perverse" behavior of within-country inequality in reaction to trade and capital flows.'] ['"The rest of the paper is organized as follows. The next section uses times series techniques to identify the impact of NAFTA on the income gap between Mexico and the United States. To deal with the big-events little- time problem, we apply two time series methods. First, we follow Harvey in conducting a structural time series exercise that might be able to separate transitory effects (such as the tequila crisis) from the long-term effects expected from NAFTA.19 Second, following Bernard and Durlauf, we apply cointegration analysis to see whether there is an observable process of income convergence between the United States and Mexico.20 We do this recursively to test for any structural change in the equilibrium condition between U.S. and Mexican GDP using quarterly data from 1960 to 2001. We find that the debt crisis in the early 1980s and the tequila crisis temporarily interrupted a process of economic convergence, which resumed after 1995. Convergence after Mexico\xc2\xb4s trade liberalization in the late 1980s and after NAFTA might have been faster prior to the debt crisis. However, given that other Latin American economies also grew quickly during this period, we also provide econometric annual estimates of the differences between Mexico-specific and Latin American income effects. These results indicate that Mexico\xc2\xb4s performance between 1986 and 1993 was not that different from the average Latin American economy, but it was significantly more positive after NAFTA, with the obvious exception of 1995."'] ['Having conducted extensive research in the field of economic growth and development, William Easterly has broad knowledge and expertise on the problems facing developing countries. While working for the World Bank, he travelled extensively in Africa, Latin America and Asia, and is well placed to comment on the key issues and debates surrounding the question of how best to promote increased well-being in the poor countries of the world. In this interview he discusses with Brian Snowdon several of the key controversies that have recently attracted the attention of scholars of economic growth and development.'] ['The widely publicized finding that "aid promotes growth in a good policy environment" is not robust to the inclusion of new data or alternative definitions of "aid," "policy" or "growth." The idea that "aid buys growth" is on shaky ground theoretically and empirically. It doesn\'t help that aid agencies face poor incentives to deliver results and underinvest in enforcing aid conditions and performing scientific evaluations. Aid should set more modest goals, like helping some of the people some of the time, rather than trying to be the catalyst for society-wide transformation.'] ['While many analysts decry the lack of sufficient investment in Africa, we find no evidence that private and public investment are productive, either in Africa as a whole (unless Botswana is included in the sample), or in the manufacturing sector in Tanzania. In this restricted sense, inadequate investment is not the major obstacle to African economic development.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Does economic development depend on geographic endowments like temperate instead of tropical location, the ecological conditions shaping diseases, or an environment good for grains or certain cash crops? Or do these endowments of tropics, germs, and crops affect economic development only through institutions or policies? We test the endowment, institution, and policy views against each other using cross country evidence. We find evidence that tropics, germs, and crops affect development through institutions. We find no evidence that tropics, germs, and crops affect country incomes directly other than through institutions, nor do we find any effect of policies on development once we control for institutions.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The paper first reviews the meaning and causes of globalization. It indicates that globalization is not a new phenomenon in history, but the current phase seems to have new elements that did not exist previously. Regarding the consequences of the various aspects of globalization at the national level, it is shown that there can be both positive and negative aspects in the short and long runs. However, empirical investigations seem to suggest largely positive implications. The structure of poverty in rural areas is subsequently discussed, and it is shown that rural poverty takes very different forms in different parts of the world. Exploring the various aspects of the incomes of the rural poor, reveals that there are both opportunities, but also dangers of detrimental impacts from global integration. On balance, it appears that globalization creates both opportunities as well as risks, and the impacts on the rural poor will depend on the extent to which they manage to seize the opportunities while managing the increased risks.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Well-meaning national and international bureaucracies dispense foreign aid under conditions in which bureaucracy fails. The environment that created aid bureaucracies led those organizations to (a) define their output as money disbursed rather than service delivered, (b) produce many low-return observable outputs (glossy reports and "frameworks") and few high-return less observable activities like ex - post evaluation, (c) engage in obfuscation, spin control, and amnesia (always describing aid efforts as "new and improved") exhibiting little learning from the past, (d) put enormous demands on scarce administrative skills in poor countries. To change this unhappy equilibrium, policymakers in rich and poor countries should experiment with decentralized markets, matching those who want to help the poor with the poor themselves freely expressing their needs and aspirations.'] ['The worldwide growth slowdown after 1975 was a major negative fiscal shock; lower growth lowers the present value of tax revenues and primary surpluses and thus makes a given level of debt more burdensome. Most countries failed to adjust to the negative fiscal consequences of the growth implosion and so public debt to GDP ratios exploded. The growth slowdown therefore played an important role in the debt crisis of the middle income countries in the 1980s, the crisis of the Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPCs) in the 1980s and 1990s, and the increased public debt burden of industrial countries in the 1980s and 1990s. Econometric tests and fiscal solvency accounting confirm the important role of growth in debt crises. In addition, the HIPCs\xe2\x80\x99 debt problems were worse because they grew more slowly after 1975 than other low income countries due to worse policies.'] [' We find evidence for the crisis-induces-reform hypothesis at extreme values of the inflation rate and the black market premium. Episodes of extremely high inflation or black market premiums are followed by periods of better performance than episodes of moderately high inflation or black market premiums. We fail to find similar evidence of the crisis hypothesis when crisis is measured as a high current account deficit, a high budget deficit, or a negative per capita growth rate. The pattern of foreign aid disbursements may help explain the results. Foreign aid is reduced at extreme values of inflation or the black market premium, while it is actually increased for more extreme values of the current account deficit and the budget deficit. Copyright 2001 Royal Statistical Society.'] [' Using polling data for 31,869 households in 38 countries and allowing for country effects, we show that the poor are more likely than the rich to mention inflation as a top national concern. This result survives several robustness checks. We also find direct measures of improvements in well-being of the poor--the change in their share in national income, the percent decline in poverty, and the percent change in the real minimum wage--to be negatively correlated with inflation in pooled cross-country samples.'] [' A middle class consensus is defined as a high share of income for the middle class and a low degree of ethnic divisions. The paper links a middle class consensus to resource endowments, along the lines of the provocative thesis of Engerman and Sokoloff (1997 and 2000). This paper exploits this association using tropical resource endowments as instruments for inequality. A higher share of income for the middle class and lower ethnic divisions are associated with higher income and higher growth, as well as with more education, better health, better infrastructure, better economic policies, less political instability, less civil war and ethnic minorities at risk, more social "modernization" and more democracy. Copyright 2001 by Kluwer Academic Publishers'] ["High-quality institutions -- reflected in such factors as rule of law, bureaucratic quality, freedom from government expropriation, and freedom from government repudiation of contracts -- mitigate the adverse economic effects of ethnic fractionalization identified by Easterly and Levine (1997) and others. Ethnic diversity has a more adverse effect on economic policy and growth when a government's institutions are poor. But poor institutions have an even more adverse effect on growth and policy when ethnic diversity is high. In countries where the institutions are good enough, however, ethnic diversity does not lessen growth or worsen economic policies. Good institutions also reduce the risk of wars and genocides that might otherwise result from ethnic fractionalization. However, these forms of violence are not the channel through which ethnic fragmentation and its interaction with institutions affect economic growth. Ethnically diverse nations that want to endure in peace and prosperity must build good institutions.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Politicians may use disguised' redistributive policies in order to circumvent opposition to explicit tax-transfer schemes. First, we present a theoretical model that formalizes this hypothesis; then we provide evidence that in US cities, politicians use public employment as such a redistributive device. We find that city employment is significantly higher in cities where income inequality and ethnic fragmentation are higher.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [" We present a model that links heterogeneity of preferences across ethnic groups in a city to the amount and type of public goods the city supplies. We test the implications of the model with three related data sets: U. S. cities, U. S. metropolitan areas, and U. S. urban counties. Results show that the shares of spending on productive public goods-education, roads, sewers and trash pickup-in U. S. cities (metro areas/urban counties) are inversely related to the city's (metro area's/county's) ethnic fragmentation, even after controlling for other socioeconomic and demographic determinants. We conclude that ethnic conflict is an important determinant of local public finances. \xc2\xa9 2000 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology"] [" Fiscal adjustment is an illusion when it lowers the budget deficit or public debt but leaves government net worth unchanged. Conventional measures of the budget deficit largely show the change in public sector debt. Ideally, the measured deficit would reflect the change in public sector net worth. Many people consider it impractical to try to measure public sector assets. My paper does not discuss what the deficit should measure, but instead proposes a positive and testable theory of how governments actually behave. Copyright Centre for Economic Policy Research, Centre for Economic Studies, Maison des Sciences de l'Homme 1999."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The traditional aid-to-investment-to-growth linkages are not very robust, especially for African economies. Aid does not necessarily finance investment and investment does not necessarily promote growth. Differences in economic policy, on the other hand, can explain much of the difference in growth performances. Furthermore, domestic politics rather than aid or conditionality has been the main determinant of policy reform. Where societies and governments have succeeded in putting growth-enhancing policies into place, aid has provided useful support. The combination of good policies and aid has created a productive environment for private investment and growth. Copyright 1999 by Oxford University Press.'] [' A remarkable diversity of indicators shows quality of life across nations to be positively associated with per capita income. At the same time, the changes in quality of life as income grows are surprisingly uneven. Either in levels or changes, moreover, the effect of exogenous shifts over time is surprisingly strong compared to growth effects. This article reaches this conclusion with a panel dataset of 81 indicators covering up to four time periods (1960, 1970, 1980, and 1990). The indicators cover seven subjects: (1) individual rights and democracy, (2) political instability and war, (3) education, (4) health, (5) transport and communications, (6) inequality across class and gender, and (7) "bads." With a SUR estimator in levels, income per capita has an impact on the quality of life that is significant, positive, and more important than exogenous shifts for 32 out of 81 indicators. With a fixed-effects estimator, growth has an impact on the quality of life that is significant, positive, and more important than exogenous shifts for 10 out of 81 indicators. With a first-differences IV estimator, growth has a causal impact on the quality of life that is significant, positive, and more important than exogenous shifts for six out of 69 quality of life indicators. The conclusion speculates about such explanations for the pattern of results as (1) the long and variable lags that may come between growth and changes in the quality of life and (2) the possibility that global socioeconomic progress is more important that home-country growth for many quality-of-life indicators. Copyright 1999 by Kluwer Academic Publishers'] ['Recent literature suggests that long-run averages of growth and inflation are only weakly correlated and that such correlation is not robust to the exclusion of observations of extreme inflation. Including time series panel data has improved matters, but an aggregate parametric approach remains inconclusive. The authors propose a nonparametric definition of high-inflation crises as"periods when annual inflation is above 40 percent."Excluding countries with high-inflation crises, they find no evidence of a consistent relationship between growth and inflation, at any frequency. They do find that growth falls sharply during discrete crises of high inflation, then recovers surprisingly strongly after inflation. The fall in growth during a crisis and the recovery of growth after the crisis tend to average out to nearly zero (even slightly above zero); hence no robust cross-section correlation. Their findings could be consistent either with trend stationarity of output (in which inflation crises are purely cyclical phenomena) or with models in which crises have a favorable long-run purgative effect. Their findings do not support the view that reducing high inflation carries heavy output costs in the short to medium run.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" There is systematic contagion across national borders. Favorable or unfavorable growth performance of one's neighbors tends to influence one's own long-run growth rate. Policy choices are also contagious across borders. While improving policies alone boosts growth substantially, the growth effects are much larger if neighboring countries act together. Copyright 1998 by Oxford University Press."] [" Explaining cross-country differences in growth rates requires not only an understanding of the link between growth and public policies, but also an understanding of why countries choose different public policies. This paper shows that ethnic diversity helps explain cross-country differences in public policies and other economic indicators. In the case of Sub-Saharan Africa, economic growth is associated with low schooling, political instability, underdeveloped financial systems, distorted foreign exchange markets, high government deficits, and insufficient infrastructure. Africa's high ethnic fragmentation explains a significant part of most of these characteristics. Copyright 1997, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] ['After years of poor economic performance, many Latin American countries undertook ambitious programs of macroeconomic stabilization andstructural reform in recent years. This change in policy created high expectations for the region, and some observers have questioned whether actual growth outcomes have lived up to these expectations. The authors offer evidence that the response of economic growth to reforms in Latin America has not been disappointing. Because of their significant policy changes, and despite a global slowdown, Latin America did well to return to its historic growth rate of 2 percent per capita in 1990-93. Latin America has responded to changes in policy variables, as would have been predicted by the experience of other times and places. Those earlier experiences are summarized by a panel regression spanning many countries and multi-year periods from 1960 to 1993. To get consistent estimates of the parameters linking growth and policy variables, the authors use a dynamic panel methodology that both controls for unobserved time- and country-specific effects and accounts for the likely internal dynamism of the explanatory variables.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The ruble exchange rate has undergone wide gyrations over the last few years, culminating in a period of rapid appreciation in early 1995. We examine this period, distinguishing between two alternative views, an overshooting view with backward looking expectations, and a portfolio model based on demand for ruble assets. We show that sturdy lag structures between inflation and monetary growth imply that the two models are observationally equivalent in the short run. Using indirect information from other asset markets, however, allows us to differentiate between the two explanations. We find fairly sturdy evidence that expectations regarding future inflation shifted downward in early 1995, suggesting that the subsequent increase in monetary growth to a significant extent satisfied increased real ruble demand, with limited inflation impact. Copyright @ 1996 by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd. All rights reserved.'] ['Are broad reforms the children of high inflation? Do growth recoveries follow? We find that countries that had external debt crises with high inflation both reformed more and recovered better than countries that had external debt crises with low inflation. Countries with extremely high inflation also later wound up with lower inflation than countries that has moderately high inflation. The low inflation debtor countries had more aid than the high inflation debtor countries, which may have created stronger incentives to reform in the high inflation countries. Recent reforms look like they are the children of high inflation, even if further paternity tests are in order.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Conventional estimates of the seigniorage-maximizing inflation rate often make use of the Cagan form, which implies a constant semielasticity of money demand with respect to inflation. This paper shows that the elasticity of substitution in transactions between money and bonds determines how the inflation semielasticity of money demand changes as inflation rises. Allowing for a variable semielasticity, estimates of seigniorage-maximizing inflation for a panel of eleven high-inflation countries are lower than those obtained by using the Cagan form. Estimates based on the correct measure of the opportunity cost of money also differ sharply from those obtained when using conventional inflation measures. Copyright 1995 by Ohio State University Press.'] [' Soviet growth from 1960 to 1989 was the worst in the world after we control for investment and human capital; the relative performance worsens over time. There is some evidence that the burden of defense spending modestly contributed to the Soviet debacle. The declining Soviet growth rate from 1950 to 1987 can be accounted for by a declining marginal product of capital with a constant rate of growth of total factor productivity. The Soviet reliance on extensive growth (rising capital-to-output ratios) was no greater than that of market economies, such as Japan and the Republic of Korea, but a low elasticity of substitution between capital and labor implied especially acute diminishing returns to capital compared with the case in market economies. Copyright 1995 by Oxford University Press.'] ['Analysis of decade-long growth rates in all countries shows a striking regularity: episodes of rapid growth are limited largely to a middle range of initial income; neither very poor nor very rich countries experienced rapid growth. Episodes of negative growth are limited to low and middle-income countries. This paper develops a simple model that sheds light on this experience. The model has two familiar elements from the growth literature: (1) a Stone-Gearly utility function (saving is low at low income), and (2) fixed factors with the marginal product of capital bounded away from zero. The second property is derived by assuming an elasticity of substitution greater than one between an exogenous labor input and a broad concept of capital. The paper extends the model to consider multiple capital goods and public capital. It finds that stagnation is consistent with an array of statistical evidence because of fixed factors. Economic policies - not initial conditions - determine whether countries stagnate. Results confirm that initial income and policy variables have a different effect on whether a country stagnates than they do on the rate of growth once it starts growing, as expected from the distinction between steady-state and transitional effects. These results suggest that cross-section growth regressions may be misspecified because of the nonlinearity inherent in the possibility of steady-state stagnation.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Much of the new growth literature stresses country characteristics, such as education levels or political stability, as the dominant determinant of growth. However, growth rates are highly unstable over time, with a correlation across decades of .1 to .3, while country characteristics are stable, with cross-decade correlations of .6 to .9. Shocks, especially those to terms of trade, play a large role in explaining variance in growth. These findings suggest either that shocks are important relative to country characteristics in determining long-run growth, or that worldwide technological change determines long-run growth while country characteristics determine relative income levels.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper describes the empirical regularities relating fiscal policy variables, the level of development and the rate of growth. We employ historical data, recent cross-section data, and newly constructed public investment series. Our main findings are: first, there is a strong association between the development level and the fiscal structure: poor countries rely heavily on international trade taxes, while income taxes are only important in developed economies; second, fiscal policy is influenced by the scale of the economy, measured by its population; and third, investment in transport and communication is consistently correlated with growth while the effects of taxation are difficult to isolate empirically.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['One of the central predictions of growth theory, old and new, is that income taxes have a negative effect on the pace of economic expansion. Little empirical work has been done on the topic because of the difficulty of measuring the relevant marginal tax rates. Easterly and Rebelo experiment with a method for computing average marginal income tax rates that combines information on statutory rates with the amount of tax revenue collected and with data on income distribution. Their method relies heavily on the assumption that the marginal tax schedule has a logistic form. Their method stands a better chance of measuring the relevant average marginal tax rate than the widely used alternative of assuming (implicitly or explicitly) that the income tax is proportional. The possibility of estimating marginal income tax rates suggests two lines of research: a study of the properties of models with nonlinear income taxes and a search for adequate empirical strategies for testing those models with cross-country data.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The author presents a simple endogenous growth model (with two types of capital) that shows the sizable long-run effects on growth of distortionary policies. The model applies to many different types of distortions of relative prices common in developing countries - for example, price controls, black market exchange rates, and differential taxes and tariffs. The model shows that distortions of relative input prices can greatly affect growth and welfare. The magnitude of the effect depends on the production elasticity of substitution. With high substitutability, the effects on growth and welfare, although possibly large, are bounded, no matter how high the rate of distortion. Subsidizing inputs and investment goods can increase growth, even though it worsens welfare. But a subsidy to one capital good financed by a tax on another capital good unambiguously reduces growth. Empirical results show strong negative effects from variance in the relative prices of investment goods across sectors, while also confirming and extending earlier results showing that penalizing investment goods and distorting financial markets reduce growth.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper examines the relationship between policies and growth through a selective survey of the recent growth literature. The survey is partial because it focuses on papers especially relevant to the relationship between policies and growth, including'] ['Los resultados econom\xc3\xa9tricos indican un sorprende efecto negativo del capital p\xc3\xbablico sobre la inversi\xc3\xb3n privada, implicando esto que parte de la declinaci\xc3\xb3n secular en la inversi\xc3\xb3n privada puede ser explicada por la expansi\xc3\xb3n del sector p\xc3\xbablico. Tambi\xc3\xa9n se encuentra poca evidencia de la contribuci\xc3\xb3n del capital p\xc3\xbablico al producto agregado y al crecimiento. El consumo privado por su parte no presenta evidencia de comportamiento ricardiano: el ahorro del sector p\xc3\xbablico no es un determinante significativo del consumo privado.'] [' This article summarizes the simple analytics of the macroeconomic effects of government budget deficits. The presentation is organized around three key relationships: the national income accounts budget deficit identity, the deficit financing identity, and the dyamic equation for the evolution of the ratio of public debt to gross national product. The national income accounts identity highlights the effect of the deficit on domestic saving and investment and the current account. Examining the financing of the deficit brings to light the different kinds of macroeconomic imbalance of the deficit can cause--as a first approximation, printing money excessively shows up as inflation, excessive use of foreign reserves leads to crises in the balance of payments, high foreign borrowing leads to a debt crisis, and too much domestic borrowing leads to high real interest rates and crowding out to private investment. The debt dynamics equation is used to show the long-run constraints on fiscal policy. Copyright 1990 by Oxford University Press.'] ['La estructura del modelo se puede explicar examinando sus tres componentes claves: el m\xc3\xa9todo contable, las ecuaciones de comportamiento y las reglas de proyecci\xc3\xb3n de las variables y la elecci\xc3\xb3n de variables residuales que exigen las partidas contables. A manera de ejemplo, se presentar\xc3\xa1n luego algunas simulaciones para mostrar el funcionamiento del modelo.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)']