 ['In this paper I analyze whether restrictions to capital mobility reduce vulnerability to external shocks. More specifically, I ask if countries that restrict the free flow of international capital have a lower probability of experiencing a large contraction in net capital flows. I use three new indexes on the degree of international financial integration and a large multi-country data set for 1970-2004 to estimate a series of random-effect probit equations. I find that the marginal effect of higher capital mobility on the probability of a capital flow contraction is positive and statistically significant, but very small. Having a flexible exchange rate greatly reduces the probability of experiencing a capital flow contraction. The benefits of flexible rates increase as the degree of capital mobility increases. A higher current account deficit increases the probability of a capital flow contraction, while a higher ratio of FDI to GDP reduces that probability.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['In this paper we analyze the macroeconomic record of "strictly dollarized" economies. In particular, we investigate whether dollarized countries have historically exhibited faster growth and lower volatility than countries with a domestic currency. We analyze this issue by using a treatment regression analysis that estimates jointly the probability of being a dollarized country, and outcome equations. Our analysis indicates that the probability of being a dollarized country depends on regional, geographical, political, and structural variables. Our results also suggest that GDP per capita growth has not been statistically different in dollarized and in non-dollarized countries. We also find that volatility has been significantly higher in dollarized than in non-dollarized economies. These results are robust to the estimation technique, and to the sample used.'] ['During the last few years there has been a renewed analysis in currency unions as a form of monetary arrangement. This new interest has been largely triggered by the Euro experience. Scholars and policy makers have asked about the optimal number of currencies in the world economy. They have analyzed whether different countries satisfy the traditional \xe2\x80\x9coptimal currency area\xe2\x80\x9d criteria. These include: (a) the synchronization of the business cycle; (b) the degree of factor mobility; and (c) the extent of trade and financial integration. In this paper I analyze the desirability of a monetary union from a Latin American perspective. First, I review the existing literature on the subject. Second, I use a large data set to analyze the evidence on economic performance in currency union countries. I investigate these countries\xe2\x80\x99 performance on four dimensions: (a) whether countries without a national currency have a lower occurrence of \xe2\x80\x9csudden stop\xe2\x80\x9d episodes; (b) whether they have a lower occurrence of \xe2\x80\x9ccurrent account reversal\xe2\x80\x9d episodes; (c) what is their ability to absorb international terms of trade shocks; and (d) what is their ability to absorb \xe2\x80\x9csudden stops\xe2\x80\x9d and \xe2\x80\x9ccurrent account reversals\xe2\x80\x9d shocks. I find that belonging to a currency union does not lower the probability of facing a sudden stop or a current account reversal. I also find that external shocks are amplified in currency union countries. The degree of amplification is particularly large when compared to flexible exchange rate countries.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['In this paper I use a large multi-country data set to analyze the determinants of abrupt and large %u201Ccurrent account reversals.%u201D The results from a variance-component probit model indicate that the probability of experiencing a major current account reversal is positively affected by larger current account deficits, lower prices of exports relative to imports, and expansive monetary policies. On the other hand, this probability is lower for more advanced countries, and for countries with flexible exchange rates. An analysis of the marginal effects of current account deficits and of the predicted probability of reversal indicates that both have increased significantly for the U.S. since 1999. However, the level of this probability is still on the low side. I estimate that the predicted probability of a current account reversal in the U.S. has increased from 1.7% in 1999, to 14.9% in 2006.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The future of the U.S. current account -- and thus of the U.S. dollar -- depend on whether foreign investors will continue to add U.S. assets to their investment portfolios. However, even under optimistic scenarios, the U.S. current account deficit is likely to go through a significant reversal at some point in time. This adjustment may be as large of 4% to 5% of GDP. In order to have an idea of the possible consequences of this type of adjustment, I have analyzed the international evidence on current account reversals using both non-parametric techniques as well as panel regressions. The results from this empirical investigation indicate that major current account reversals have tended to result in large declines in GDP growth. I also analyze the large U.S. current account adjustment of 1987-1991.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['In this paper we analyze empirically the effect of terms of trade shocks on economic performance under alternative exchange rate regimes. We are particularly interested in investigating whether terms of trade disturbances have a smaller effect on growth in countries with a flexible exchange rate regime, than in countries with a more rigid exchange rate arrangement. We also analyze whether negative and positive terms of trade shocks have asymmetric effects on growth, and whether the magnitude of these asymmetries depends on the exchange rate regime. We find evidence suggesting that terms of trade shocks get amplified in countries that have more rigid exchange rate regimes. We also find evidence of an asymmetric response to terms of trade shocks: the output response is larger for negative than for positive shocks. Finally, we find evidence supporting the view that, after controlling for other factors, countries with more flexible exchange rate regimes grow faster than countries with fixed exchange rates.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["In this paper I use a panel data set to investigate the mechanics of sudden stops of capital inflows and current account reversals. I am particularly interested in four questions: (a) What is the relationship between sudden stops and current account reversals? (b) To what extent does financial openness affect the probability of a country being subject to a current account reversal? In other words, do restrictions on capital mobility reduce the probability of such occurrences? (C) Does openness -- both trade openness and financial openness -- play a role in determining the effect of current account reversals on economic performance (i.e. GDP growth)? And, (d) does the exchange rate regime affect the intensity with which reversals affect real activity? The empirical analysis shows that sudden stops and current account reversals have been closely related. The econometric analysis suggests that restricting capital mobility does not reduce the probability of experiencing a reversal. Current account reversals, in turn, have had a negative effect on real growth that goes beyond their direct effect on investment. The regression analysis indicates that the negative effects of current account reversals on growth will depend on the country's degree of trade openness: More open countries will suffer less in terms of lower growth relative to trend than countries with a lower degree of trade openness. On the other hand, the degree of financial openness does not appear to be related to the intensity with which reversals affect real economic performance. The empirical analysis also suggests that countries with more flexible exchange rate regimes are able to accommodate better shocks stemming from a reversal than countries with more rigid exchange rate regimes.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We use high-frequency interest-rate data for a group of Latin American and Asian countries to analyze the behavior of volatility through time. We focus on volatility comovements across countries. Our analysis relies on univariate and bivariate switching volatility models. We compare the results from the switching models with those from rolling-standard-deviation models. We argue that the switching models are superior. Our results indicate that high-volatility episodes are, in general, short-lived, lasting from 2 to 7 weeks. We also find some evidence of interest-rate volatility comovements across countries. \xc2\xa9 2003 President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [" In this paper I develop a model to investigate the connection between debt relief and current account sustainability. This model can be used as a key input in assessing whether a HIPC country's real exchange rate is 'overvalued,' and will thus need to go through devaluation. The working of the model is illustrated for the case of Nicaragua, a country that in 2002 had one of the highest external debt to GDP ratios: almost 300 per cent. Nicaragua is the second poorest country in the Western Hemisphere (after Haiti), and for the last decade has relied very heavily on foreign assistance and aid. Moreover, in the last few years Nicaragua has run extremely large current account deficits in excess of 37 per cent of GDP during 1997-2001 largely financed by grants, donations and migrant remittances. Copyright \xef\xbf\xbd Blackwell Publishing Ltd 2003."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In this paper I analyze the relationship between fiscal policy, aggregate public sector debt sustainability, and debt relief. I develop a methodology to compute the fiscal policy path that is compatible with aggregate debt sustainability in the post-HIPC era. The model explicitly considers the role of domestic debt, and quantifies the extent to which future debt sustainability depends on the availability of concessional loans at subsidized interest rates. The working of the model is illustrated for the case of Nicaragua, a country that in 2002 had one of the highest net present value of public external debt to GDP ratios.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["In this paper we analyze the behavior of stock markets in six emerging countries. More specifically, we describe the bull and bear cycles of four Latin American and two Asian countries, comparing their characteristics during both phases and the degree of concordance of bullish periods. We divide our sample in two subperiods in order to account for differences induced by the financial liberalization processes that these countries went through in the early 1990's. We find that cycles in emerging countries tend to have shorter duration and larger amplitude and volatility than in developed countries. However, after financial liberalization Latin American stock markets have behaved more similarly to stock markets in developed countries whereas Asian countries have become more dissimilar. Concordance of cycles across markets has increased significantly over time, especially for Latin American countries after liberalization.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" In this paper we analyse the macroeconomic record of dollarized economies. In particular, we investigate whether, as its supporters claim, dollarization is associated with lower inflation and faster growth. We analyse this issue by using a matching estimator technique developed in the training evaluation literature. Our findings suggest that inflation has been significantly lower in dollarized nations than in non-dollarized ones. We also find that dollarized nations have had a lower rate of economic growth than non-dollarized ones. Finally, we find that macroeconomic volatility is not significantly different across dollarized and non-dollarized economies. We conjecture that the lower rate of economic growth in dollarized countries is due, at least in part, to these countries' difficulties in accommodating external disturbances, such as major terms of trade and capital flows shocks. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2003 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd."] [' Are the Internet and other information technology the answer to growth in the developing world? This development economist answers "no," unless these countries make adequate investment in education, infrastructure, and research and development. This is no small order.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["In this paper I discuss in what way, if any, the collapse of Argentina's experience with a currency board has affected the policy debate on the appropriate exchange rate regime in emerging and transition countries. More specifically, I deal with three issues: (1) I discuss some important aspects of the Argentine experience. (2) I provide a comparative evaluation of economic performance under strict dollarization. And (3), I analyze emerging countries' experiences with flexible exchange rates, including the issue of fear of floating.'<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In this paper we use weekly stock market data for a group of Latin American countries to analyze the behavior of volatility through time. We are particularly interested in understanding whether periods of high volatility are correlated across countries. The analysis uses both on univariate and bivariate switching volatility models. Our results do not rely on the correlation coefficients, but on the co-dependence of volatility regimes. The results indicate that high-volatility episodes are, in general, short-lived, lasting from two to twelve weeks. We find strong evidence of volatility co-movements across countries, especially among the Mercosur countries.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['On July 1999 Colombia entered into an extended facility agreement with the IMF. Clearly, problems currently affecting Colombia go well beyond economics, as political and social tensions have intensified. Many of the policies contemplated in the IMF progra'] ["This paper deals with the reform to labor market regulation implemented by Chile during the last twenty years. We concentrate on the reform to job security, on the decentralization of the wage bargaining process, and on the reduction in payroll taxes. Our interest is to understand to what extent these reforms helped reduce Chile's rate of unemployment from European' to U.S' levels. We argue that the reduction of payroll taxes (within the context of the social security reform), and the decentralization of bargaining increased labor market flexibility and contributed to the reduction of unemployment. Our analysis suggests that the reform on job security had no significant effect on the aggregate rate of unemployment.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper analyzes the effectiveness of capital controls, in particular the Chilean experience with the use of the unremunerated reserve requirement. We examine the effects on interest rates, real exchange rate, and the volume and composition of capital inflows. The effects are elusive and it is difficult to pin down long-run effects. Although after the unremunerated reserve requirement was introduced there was an increase in the interest rate differential, the econometric evidence does not show it has a significant long-run effect on interest rate differentials. There are also no effects on the real exchange rate. However, the more persistent and significant effect is on the composition of capital inflows, tilting composition toward longer maturity.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["A number of authors have recently argued that, in order to avoid financial instability, emerging countries should rely on capital controls. Two type of controls have been considered: controls on capital outflows, and controls on capital inflows. In this paper I review the historical evidence on the effectiveness of these two type of controls. I argue that controls on outflows have been ineffective. They are circumvented and breed corruption. I also analyze Chile's recent experience with controls on inflows, and I argue that their effectiveness has been exaggerated."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper provides a comparative analysis of the Mexican currency crisis of 1994 and the Chilean crisis of 1982 to assess to what extent exchange-rate-based stabilization programs are successful in reducing--or even eliminating--inflationary inertia. The paper provides a brief overview of the Chilean and Mexican reform and stabilization programs. A theoretical model that emphasizes the role of credibility is developed to analyze the effects of exchange-rate based stabilization programs on inflationary inertia. According to the model, less than credible stabilizations will not eliminate inertia and will generate major real exchange rate overvaluation. Detailed data are used to test the hypothesis.'] ['Non-employment rates in all central and eastern European countries have increased dranatically thoroughout the transition and are currently larger than those of the lowest income OECD countries. Non-employment benefits other than unemployment benefits are providing income support to this growing number of able-bodied individuals out of work. Under the present design of unemployment benefits and social assistance, there may be serious incentive problems related to the shift from unemployment benefits to other, means-tested, non-employment benefits and this shift occurs in transition countries at rather early stages of an unemployment spell; these incentive problems are bound to become particularly acute in a less inflationary environment.'] [' Comparative data for ninety-three countries are used to analyze the robustness of the relationship between openness and total factor productivity growth. Nine indexes of trade policy are used to investigate whether the evidence supports the view that total factor productivity growth is faster in more open economies. The results are robust to the use of openness indicator, estimation technique, time period, and functional form and suggest that more open countries experienced faster productivity growth. Although the use of instrumental variables help dealing with endogeneity, issues related to causality remain somewhat open and require time series analyses to be adequately addressed.'] ['Current debates on globalization have tended to focus on financial market volatility and contagion. In fact, many proponents of the imposition of some form of capital restrictions in emerging markets have argued that these would help reduce - or even eliminate -spillover across emerging market. Although this has been an old concern among developing economies, it has become more generalized after the Mexican, East Asian and Russian crises. In this paper I use high frequency data on short term nominal interest rates during the 1990s in three Latin American countries - Argentina, Chile and Mexico -- to analyze whether there has been volatility contagion from Mexico to the two South American nations. The results obtained from the estimation of augmented GARCH equations indicate, quite strongly, that while there has been volatility contagion from Mexico to Argentina, there has been no volatility contagion from Mexico to Chile. These results also indicate, however, that with the exception of a brief period in 1995, nominal interest rates have been more volatile in Chile than in Argentina. The results reported in this paper also indicate that interest rate differentials with respect to the US have tended to disappear somewhat slowly in both Chile and Argentina. Moreover, the estimation of rolling regressions for Chile indicate that after capital controls on capital inflows were imposed, interest rate differentials became more sluggish and tended to disappear more slowly than during the free capital mobility period.'] ['As the recent Mexican crisis vividly illustrates, Latin American countries often go through boom-bust cycles caused by both domestic policies and external shocks. Such cycles are typically magnified by weak banking systems which intermediate large capital inflows. This paper develops a simple optimizing model to analyze how the banking sector affects the propagation of shocks. In particular, we show how the world business cycle and shocks to the banking system affect output and employment through fluctuations in bank credit. We also analyze the countercyclical use of reserve requirements. Econometric evidence for Chile and Mexico supports the main predictions of the model.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper explores the link between trade liberalization and unemployment, focusing in what has arguably been one of the most dramatic trade liberalization episodes in modern times: the Chilean trade reform of the 1970s. In little more than three years a'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The importance of seigniorage relative to other sources of government revenue differs markedly across countries. This paper tries to explain this regularity by studying a political model of tax reform. The model implies that countries with a more unstable and polarized political system will have more inefficient tax structures and, thus, will rely more heavily on seigniorage. This prediction of the model is tested on cross-sectional data for seventy countries. The authors find that, after controlling for other variables, political instability is positively associated with seigniorage. Copyright 1992 by American Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Many arguments in favor of maintaining capital controls within the European Community have not paid sufficient attention to the welfare consequences of this type of intervention. The authors' paper provides a simple choice-theoretic framework in which the welfare effects of capital controls can be assessed. First, they compare the welfare effects of terms of trade shocks in economies with and without capital controls. Second, the authors inquire into the nature of second best arguments for maintaining capital controls, given that other distortions (notably in the labor market) will remain after the European single market is in place in 1992. Copyright 1992 by Royal Economic Society."] ['In this paper I use a cross country data set to analyze the relationship between trade orientation, trade distortions and growth. I first develop a simple endogenous growth model that emphasizes the process of technological absorption in small developing countries. According to this model countries that liberalize their international trade and become more open will tend to grow faster. Whether this higher growth is permanent, or only a short run result, will depend on the relative size of some key parameters. using nine alternative indicators of trade orientation I find out that the data supports the view that more open economies tend to grow faster than economies with trade distortions. The results are robust to the method of estimation, to correction for errors in variables and for the deletion of outliers. I finally argue that future research in the area should move towards the empirical investigation of the microeconomics of technological innovations and growth.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In this paper we investigate erririca1ly the determinants of inflation, seigniorage an fiscal deficits in developing countries. We first test the optimal taxation theory of inflation for a grip of 21 LDCs. We find that the implications of this theory is rejected for all the countries. We then proceed to implement a number of tests based on the new political economy approach to macroeconomic policies: we deal with some of the implications of a credibility and reputation model, and of a strategic government behavior model. We find that the data supports the most important predictions of the political economy view of fiscal policy. Our measures of political instability and political polarization play an important role in explaining cross country differences in seigniorage, inflation, government borrowing and fiscal deficits. We end by discussing directions for future research.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper deals with the anatomy of devaluation in Latin America. In an effort to understand the economics surrounding the causes and consequences of exchange rate crises, eighteen devaluation episodes that took place between 1962 and 1982 are investigated in detail. The paper focuses on: (1) the relation between (inconsistent) macroeconomics policies and exchange rate crises; (2) the role of real exchange rate overvaluation in the precipitation of balance of payment crises under pre-determined nominal exchange rates; (3) the role of exchange controls, multiple exchange rates and black markets in the period preceding devaluations; and (4) the effectiveness of nominal devaluations as a way to restore real exchange rate equilibrium. A distinction is made between stepwise devaluations and crawling peg regime. It was found that historically most stepwise devaluations have had difficulty in sustaining a real devaluation over the medium term. Countries that adopted a crawling peg have generally been able to maintain a higher real exchange rate. In many cases, however, this has been achieved at the cost of substantial inflation.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['A general equilibrium intertemporal model with optimizing consumers and producers is developed to analyze how the equilibrium real exchange rate reacts to changes in the degree of restrictions to intra- and intertemporal trade. In particular, the effects of changes in the level of import tariffs and of changes in taxes on foreign borrowing on the path of equilibrium real exchange rates are investigated. In the case of import tariffs, both temporary and anticipated changes are considered. It is shown that in this intertemporal framework equilibrium, real exchange rates can exhibit interesting and convoluted behavior. In particular, results that contradict the traditional wisdom can be obtained. A number of extensions are also discussed.'] [' In this paper a general equilibrium intertemporal model with optimizing consumers and producers is developed to analyze how temporary terms-of-trade disturbances affect the path of real exchange rates and the current account. Changes in the internal terms of trade (arising from tariff changes) and to the external terms of trade are considered. The model is completely real, and considers a small open economy that produces and consumes three goods each period. It is shown that, without imposing rigidities or adjustment costs, interesting paths for the equilibrium real exchange rate can be generated. In particular, "equilibrium overshooting" can be observed. Precise conditions under which a temporary import tariff will worsen the current account in period 1 are derived. The way in which temporary and permanent external terms-of-trade shocks will affect the current account are analyzed. Several ways in which the model can be extended are discussed. The results obtained from this model have important implications for the design of balance of payments policy and for the analysis of real exchange rate misalignment and overvaluation. Copyright 1989 by The London School of Economics and Political Science.'] [' This article analyzes the theory of equilibrium real exchange rates and defines misalignment as a deviation of the real exchange rate (RER) from its equilibrium level. The role of macroeconomic policies is then analyzed under three alternative nominal exchange rate regimes: predetermined nominal exchange rates, floating nominal rates, and dual or black market nominal exchange rates. This discussion points out how inconsistent macroeconomic policies often lead to real exchange rate misalignment. Corrective measures, including nominal devaluations and several alternative approaches, are then evaluated. Copyright 1989 by Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper develops a dynamic model of real exchange rate behavior in developing countries. A three goods economy (exportables, importables and nontradables) is considered. Residents of this country hold domestic and foreign assets, and there is a dual exchange rate regime. There is a government that consumes importables and nontradables. A distinction is made between equilibrium and disequilibrium movements of the RER. The determinants of real exchange rate misalignment are studied with emphasis placed on the role of devaluations and balance of payments crisis. The implications of the model are tested using data for 12 developing countries. The results obtained are generally favorable for the model. The issue of RER stationarity is also analyzed.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['In this paper we investigate the relation between tariff changes, terms of trade changes and the equilibrium real exchange rate. For this purpose we use two models of a small open economy: (1) a three goods version of the Ricardo-Viner model; and (2) a three goods model with full intersectoral factor mobility. We show that, in general, it is not possible to know how the equilibrium real exchange rate will respond to these two disturbances. Moreover, we show that the traditional wisdom that establishes that a tariff hike will always result in a real appreciation, while a terms of trade worsening will generate an equilibrium real depreciation, is incorrect.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The purpose of this paper is to compare the pricing of bank loans and bonds in international markets. The results obtained, using data on LDC debtors, indicate that in both markets the country risk premium has responded to some of the variables suggested by the theory. However, the way in which these variables affect the risk premium differs across these markets. Data on LDC bond yields in the secondary market for 1980-85 are also used to analyze the way in which this market reacted and anticipated the debt crisis.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Recently a number of authors have criticized the role of devaluations in traditional stabilization programs. It has been argued that, contrary to the traditional view, devaluations are contractionary, and generate a decline in aggregate output. In spite of the renewed theoretical interest in the possible contractionary effects of devaluations, the empirical evidence on the subject has been quite sketchy. In this paper the Khan and Knight (1981)model is extended to empirically address the issue of contractionary devaluations. The extended model considers the effect of money surprises, fiscal factors, terms of trade changes and devaluations on the level of real output. The results obtained, using a variance components procedure on data for 12 developing countries, provide some support to the short-run contractionary devaluation hypothesis; the results obtained indicate that in the short-run a devaluation will generate a decline in aggregate output. It is also found that after one year a devaluation will have an expansionary effecton output. The evidence suggests that in the long run, devaluations will have no effect on output.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Most discussions on the social rate of discount have assumed that the economy under consideration is isolated from the rest of the world, and that there are no capital movements. This paper explicitly analyzes the determination of the social rate of discount in a small open developing economy. It is shown that under general conditions, the discount rate will bea weighted average of the marginal return to capital in the private sector(p), the rate of time preference (r), and the marginal cost of foreign indebtedness (n).It is also shown that unless the country faces an upward-sloping supply curve for foreign funds the weights of p and r will be zero. Finally, it is shown that if the country in question faces a foreign borrowing constraint imposed from abroad, the social rate of discount becomes equal to a weighted average of the domestic marginal return to capital and the rate of time preferences. Data for a group of LDCs is then used to show that financial markets have indeed attached a default country risk premium to LDCs. This provides some evidence in favor of the hypothesis that developing countries face an upward-sloping supply curve of foreign funds, and that, in general, the social rate of discount should be a weighted average of p, r and n. Finally,some numerical examples are used to show that ignoring the open economy aspects can result in a substantial overstatement of the social rate of discount.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Contrary to what is suggested by the theory, most empirical studies on the demand for international reserves have failed to find a significant(negative) coefficient for the opportunity cost of holding reserves. In this paper it is argued that the reason for this is that the opportunity cost of holding international reserves has been measured incorrectly. In the empirical analysis presented in this paper the spread between the interest rate at which countries can borrow from abroad and LIBOR is used as a proxy for the net opportunity cost for holding reserves. The results obtained using data for a group of developing countries for 1976-198O show that when this net opportunity cost is used, the regression coefficient is significantly negative.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Traditionally, two alternative explanations have been offered for the behavior of international reserves through time. On the one hand, the literature on the demand for international reserves postulates that reserves movements respond to discrepancies between desIred and actual reserves. Onthe other hand, according to the monetary approach to the balance of payments,changes in international reserves will be related to excess demands or excess supplies for money. The purpose of this paper is to empirically integrate these two basic explanations for international reserves movements. This is done by estimating a dynamic equation that explicitly allows reserves movements to reflect the monetary authority's excess demand for international reserves, and the public's excess demand for money. The results obtained,using a sample of 23 developing countries that maintained a fixed exchange rate during period 1965-1972, confirm the hypothesis that reserves movements respond both to monetary factors and to differences between actual and desired reserves. These results indicate that the exclusion of monetary considerations from the dynamic analysis of international reserves will yield biased coefficients.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['This paper investigates to what extent the international financial community has taken into account the risk characteristics of borrowing less developed countries when granting loans. Specifically, this study analyzes the determinants of the spread betwee'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper analyzes the relationship between forward exchange rates,future spot rates and new information. A stochastic model of exchangerate determination is used to formally show how unanticipated changes in the exchange rate determinants (or "news") affect the spot rate. The empirical analysis indicates that "new information" plays an important role in explaining the market forecasting error, or difference between the spot rate and the forward rate, determined in the previous period.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper develops a simple model of exchange rate determination under a floating system. The model is used to investigate the relationship between nominal interest rates movements and the exchange rate. It is shown that, depending on the nature of inter'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["In this paper the relationship between the demand for international reserves and exchange rate adjustments is empirically investigated for agroup of LDC's. It is shown that countries that have maintained a fixed exchange rate for a long period of time have a different demand function than countries that have occasionally used exchange rate adjustments for correcting payments imbalances. The dynamics of the adjustment for both groupsof countries are also analyzed. The results show that while both groups tend to eliminate reserve disequilibria fast, those countries that have maintained a fixed rate tend to do it more slowly than countries that have occasionally devalued their currency. It Is also shown that the year prior to a devaluation, international reserves have been, on average, 30% below their short-run desired level. These results are important since they indicate that not all LDC's should be aggregated for prediction purposes. The results also have implications for the analysis of the adequacy of international reserves in less developed countries.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This note presents in a simple framework the Balassa (1964) argument. It is shown that if technical progress is faster in the nontraded goods sector, their relative price will tend to rise through time. It is also shown that this increase in relative pric'] ["In this paper the relationship between the demand for international reserves and exchange rate adjustments is empirically investigated for a group of LDC's. It is shown that countries that have maintained a fixed exchange rate for a long period of time ha"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In this paper the short run employment effect of a trade liberalization process in a less developed country is investigated. It is shown that when it is assumed both that capital is immobile between sectors in the short run and that there is an economy wi'] ['In this note a monetary model of the determination of the short run interest rate is developed. It is assumed that economic agents form: their expectations about future inflation in a rational way. It is showed that expected increases in the quantity of m'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']