 ["We offer new evidence on the emergence of the dollar as the leading international currency focusing on its role as currency of denomination in global bond markets. We show that the dollar overtook sterling much earlier than commonly supposed, as early as in 1929. Financial development appears to have been the main factor helping the dollar to overcome sterling's head start. The finding that a shift from a unipolar to a multipolar international monetary and financial system has happened before suggests that it can happen again. That the shift occurred earlier than commonly believed suggests that the advantages of incumbency are not insurmountable. And that financial deepening was a key determinant of the dollar's emergence points to the challenges facing currencies aspiring to international status."] ['We analyze why the Eurozone crisis increasingly resembles Latin America\xe2\x80\x99s lost decade instead of Asia\xe2\x80\x99s phoenix miracle, emphasizing the roles of the real exchange rate, the external environment, and debt restructuring. In addition, we contrast the adjustment to housing bubbles in Ireland, Spain and the U.S. Here our explanation for the contrast departs from the conventional wisdom in placing less emphasis on labor mobility but more on participation rates and bank mergers and acquisitions in the adjustment process.'] ['Contribution to the panel session at the Hoover Institution conference on \xe2\x80\x9cFrameworks for Monetary Policy for the Next Century,\xe2\x80\x9d May 30, 2014.'] ['This paper reports updated measures of transparency and independence for more than 100 central banks. The indices show that there has been steady movement in the direction of greater transparency and independence over time. In addition, we show that outcomes such as the variability of inflation are significantly affected by both central bank transparency and independence. Disentangling the impact of the two dimensions of central bank arrangements remains difficult, however.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["We analyse patterns of bilateral financial investment using data on US holdings of foreign bonds. We document a \xe2\x80\x9chistory effect\xe2\x80\x9d in which holdings seven decades ago continue to influence holdings today. 10\xe2\x80\x9315% of the cross-country variation in US investors' foreign bond holdings is explained by holdings 70 years ago, plausibly reflecting fixed costs of market entry and exit and endogenous learning. This effect is twice as large for bonds denominated in currencies other than the dollar, suggesting the existence of even higher fixed costs of initiating US foreign investment in such currencies. Our findings point to history and path dependence as key sources of financial market segmentation."] ['We analyze the incidence and correlates of growth slowdowns in fast-growing middle-income countries, extending the analysis of an earlier paper (Eichengreen et al., 2012a). We continue to find dispersion in the per capita income at which slowdowns occur. But in contrast to our earlier analysis which pointed to the existence of a single mode at which slowdowns occur, in the neighborhood of $15,000\xe2\x80\x9316,000 2005 purchasing power parity dollars, new data suggest the possibility of two modes, one at $10,000\xe2\x80\x9311,000 and another at $15,000\xe2\x80\x9316,000. A number of countries appear to have experienced two slowdowns, consistent with the existence of multiple modes. We suggest that growth in middle-income countries may slow down in a succession of stages rather than at a single point in time. This implies that a larger group of countries is at risk of a growth slowdown and that middle-income countries may find themselves slowing down at lower income levels than implied by our earlier estimates. We also find that slowdowns are less likely in countries where the population has a relatively high level of secondary and tertiary education and where high-technology products accounts for a relatively large share of exports, consistent with our earlier emphasis of the importance of moving up the technology ladder in order to avoid the middle-income trap.'] ['Governments have rarely imposed or removed capital controls in response to short-term fluctuations in output, the terms of trade, or financial-stability considerations. We show empirically that controls on the international flow of financial capital are highly durable, often remaining in place for decades; their duration is striking compared with related phenomena such as exchange rate regimes. This represents a challenge to any proposed use of capital controls as an instrument of macroeconomic and macro-prudential management, since we have little experience in using capital controls at high- or medium frequencies. Any new policy initiative mandating frequent shifts in controls will be based on theory rather than data-driven experience.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 This paper aims to survey India's experience with exporting services. The authors seek to show that the country's experience is unique in that modern tradable services are a significantly larger share of GDP than in other countries at comparable levels of economic development. This has not always been the case, however; India's out-performance is limited to recent years. Policy initiatives, from trade reform to liberalization of domestic industrial and service sectors, were important for jump-starting the process. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 This paper reviews the literature and evidence. It takes a close look at the Indian service sector and specifically information-technology-related (IT) services, seeking to situate the growth in service exports from India in its comparative context. The authors document the role that exports of services have played in the performance of the Indian economy in recent years. They seek to pinpoint the \xe2\x80\x9ctake-off\xe2\x80\x9d in Indian services output and establish the extent to which the country's success in exporting services is exceptional from an international point of view. And they discuss the extent to which India's performance as an exporter of services has been shaped by policies liberalizing the service sector itself and by liberalization of the manufacturing sector. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 Panel and country-specific regressions for a cross section of countries point to the importance of a range of additional factors: overall economic development, communications infrastructure, access to foreign technology, and spillovers between the merchandise and service exports. Importantly, however, these factors, jointly or individually, do not wipe out the significance of a dummy variable for India. India, evidently, is a significant outlier as an exporter of services, and even more so as the period proceeds. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 The paper discusses the country's major policy initiatives, such as trade reforms and liberalization of domestic industrial and service sectors, and their importance for jump-starting the process of services growth and its exports. Regression results show that, in addition to these policies, other factors such as overall economic development, communications infrastructure, access to foreign technology, and spillovers between the merchandise and service exports were important as well."] ['We analyze disagreements over de facto exchange-rate-regime classifications using three popular de facto regime data series. While there is a moderate degree of concurrence across classifications, disagreements are not uncommon, and they are not random. They are most prevalent in middle-income countries (emerging markets) and low-income (developing) countries as opposed to advanced economies. They are most prevalent for countries with well-developed financial markets, low reserves and open capital accounts. This suggests caution when attempting to relate the exchange rate regime to financial development, the openness of the financial account, and reserve management and accumulation decisions.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' ADB Distinguished Lecture delivered at ADB Headquarters in Manila on 11 January 2013. \xc2\xa9 2013 Asian Development Bank and Asian Development Bank Institute.'] ['We examine the impact of the Great Depression on the share of votes for right-wing extremists in elections in the 1920s and 1930s. We confirm the existence of a link between political extremism and economic hard times as captured by growth or contraction of the economy. What mattered was not simply growth at the time of the election, but cumulative growth performance. The impact was greatest in countries with relatively short histories of democracy, with electoral systems that created low hurdles to parliamentary representation, and which had been on the losing side in World War I.'] ["The Indian banking system was initially thought to be insulated from the global financial crisis owing to heavy public ownership and cautious management. It was thus a surprise when some banks experienced deposit flight, as depositors shifted their money toward government-owned banks and specifically toward the State Bank of India, the largest public bank. While there was some tendency for depositors to favour healthier banks and banks with more stable funding, the reallocation of deposits toward the State Bank of India cannot be explained by these factors alone. Rather it appears that the implicit government guarantee of the liabilities of the country's largest public bank dominated other considerations."] ['Many economists are accustomed to thinking about Federal Reserve policy in terms of the institution\'s "dual mandate," which refers to price stability and high employment, and in which the exchange rate and other international variables matter only insofar as they influence inflation and the output gap -- which is to say, not very much. In fact, this conventional view is heavily shaped by the distinctive and peculiar circumstances of the last three decades, when the influence of international considerations on Fed policy has been limited. In fact, the Federal Reserve paid significant attention to international considerations in its first two decades, followed by relative inattention to such factors in the two-plus decades that followed, then back to renewed attention to international aspects of monetary policy in the 1960s, before the recent period of benign neglect of the international dimension. I argue that in the next few decades, international aspects are likely to play a larger role in Federal Reserve policy making than at present.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Although the positive association between the service sector share of output and per capita income is one of the best-known regularities in all of growth and development economics, there is less than complete agreement on the nature of that association. We identify two waves of service sector growth: a first wave in countries with relatively low levels of per capita GDP; and a second in countries with higher per capita incomes. The first wave is made up primarily of traditional services, the second of modern services. In addition, there is evidence of the second wave occurring at lower income levels after 1990, especially so in democracies, in countries that are open to trade, and in countries close to global financial centres. This points to both political and economic conditions that can help countries capitalize on the opportunities afforded by a globalized post-industrial economy. Copyright 2013 Oxford University Press 2011 All rights reserved, Oxford University Press.'] ["How did the Subprime Crisis, a problem in a small corner of U.S. financial markets, affect the entire global banking system? To shed light on this question we use principal components analysis to identify common factors in the movement of banks' credit default swap spreads. We find that fortunes of international banks rise and fall together even in normal times along with short-term global economic prospects. But the importance of common factors rose steadily to exceptional levels from the outbreak of the Subprime Crisis to past the rescue of Bear Stearns, reflecting a diffuse sense that funding and credit risk was increasing. Following the failure of Lehman Brothers, the interdependencies briefly increased to a new high, before they fell back to the pre-Lehman elevated levels \xe2\x80\x93 but now they more clearly reflected heightened funding and counterparty risk. After Lehman's failure, the prospect of global recession became imminent, auguring the further deterioration of banks' loan portfolios. At this point the entire global financial system had become infected."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper provides new evidence on the rise of the dollar as an international currency, focusing on its role in the conduct of trade and the provision of trade credit. We show that the shift to the dollar occurred much earlier than conventionally supposed: during and immediately after World War I. Not just market forces but also policy support \xe2\x80\x93 the Fed in its role as market maker \xe2\x80\x93 was important for the dollar\xe2\x80\x99s overtaking of sterling as the leading international currency. On balance, this experience challenges the popular notion of international currency status as being determined mainly by market size. It suggests that the popular image of strongly increasing returns and pervasive network externalities leaving room for only one monetary technology is misleading.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We construct a simple probit model of the determinants of real house price slump endings.\xef\xbf\xbd We find that the probability of a house price slump ending is higher, the smaller was the pre-slump house price run-up; the greater has been the cumualtive house price decline; the lower are real mortgage interest rates; and the higher is GDP growth.\xef\xbf\xbd Slumps are longer, other things being equal, where housing supply is more elastic, but shorter the more developed are financial institutions.\xef\xbf\xbd For slumps of a given size, shorter sharper slumps are associated with worse macroeconomic performance in the short run, but with better performance in the long run.\xef\xbf\xbd This suggests that for sufficiently low discount rates, policy makers should not impede the decline in real house prices, and this conclusion is reinforced by the finding that after a certain duration, house price slumps can become self-reinforcing.\xef\xbf\xbd On the other hand, we also find evidence that during downturns, falling house prices can lead to lower private sector credit flows.\xef\xbf\xbd Policy makers thus face a delicate balancing act.\xef\xbf\xbd While they should not intervene to artifically prop up overvalued house prices, they should ensure that their macroeconomic and banking policies are such as to make a bottoming-out more likely.\xef\xbf\xbd This suggests that they should keep real interest rates low, and ensure that banks are well-capitalised.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" This paper reassesses the roles of government, business and finance in South Korea's economic growth and development. It argues that these extra-market mechanisms were each important, in their own ways, for solving coordination problems that would have otherwise posed obstacles to industrial growth. But what were solutions in the early stages of modern economic growth proved to be impediments later, as the problems that had to be solved changed but the institutions did not."] [' Using international data starting in 1957, we construct a sample of cases where fast-growing economies slow down. The evidence suggests that rapidly growing economies slow down significantly, in the sense that the growth rate downshifts by at least 2 percentage points, when their per capita incomes reach around US$ 17,000 in year-2005 constant international prices, a level that China should achieve by or soon after 2015. Among our more provocative findings is that growth slowdowns are more likely in countries that maintain undervalued real exchange rates. \xc2\xa9 2012 The Earth Institute at Columbia University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['\xe2\x80\x9cThe lessons of history\xe2\x80\x9d were widely invoked in 2008/09 as analysts and policymakers sought to make sense of the global financial crisis. Specifically, analogies with the early stages of the Great Depression of the 1930s were widely drawn. Building on work in cognitive science and literature on foreign policy making, this article seeks to account for the influence of this particular historical analogy and asks how it shaped both perceptions and the economic policy response. It asks how historical scholarship might be better organized to inform the process of economic policymaking. It concludes with some reflections on how research in economic history will be reshaped by the crisis.'] [" Today's global monetary and financial system, to a remarkable extent, continues to rely on the U.S. dollar for international liquidity. This reflects the currency's historic role, the liquidity of American financial markets, and the absence of alternatives. But with the emergence of emerging markets, the capacity of the United States to provide safe assets will be outstripped by the growth of international transactions. It is thus likely that other large economies, presumably Europe and China, will eventually join the United States as sources of international liquidity and that other currencies will come to share the dollar's reserve-currency status."] ['Proponents of Asian monetary integration have always looked to Europe for inspiration. This paper reconsiders the cas in light of the eurozone crisis. I ask what aspects of the earlier consensus remain intact in the wake of the crisis and what aspects must now be rethought. Is there a danger of \xe2\x80\x9cthrowing out the baby with the bathwater\xe2\x80\x9d \xe2\x80\x93 a danger, in other words, that Europe\xe2\x80\x99s negative experience since 2009 will cause Asia to turn away too quickly and completely from monetary integration? Or is it in fact appropriate to \xe2\x80\x9cthrow out the baby\xe2\x80\x9d \xe2\x80\x93 to conclude in light of Europe\xe2\x80\x99s example that Asian monetary integration is not an appropriate and desirable goal?'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We provide a synoptic description of financial crises and the multilateral response over the course of the last four decades. We present both indicators of economic performance around crisis dates and a comprehensive description of multilateral rescue efforts. While emergency lending has grown, reliance on debt restructuring, broadly speaking, has declined. This leads us to ask what can be done to rebalance the management of debt problems toward a better mix of emergency lending and private sector burden sharing. In particular, we explore the idea of sovereign cocos, contingent debt securities that automatically reduce payment obligations in the event of debt-sustainability problems.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper addresses the question of whether the medium- and long-term growth potential of the advanced economies has been impaired by the global financial crisis. It evidence from the Great Despression of the 1930s to illuminate the prospects, concluding the following. First, the impact of weak bank balance sheets and heightened risk aversion made it harder for small firms. in particular, to fund investment projects. Second, there is little evidence that increased public debt or policy uncertainity had major effects in depressing investment. Third, structural unemployment dissolved quickly in the face of increased demand. Fourth and finally, the crisis was also an opportunity as firms used the downtime created by the Depression to reorganize and modernize their operations.'] ["Closing remarks -- Asia's role in the post-crisis global economy : a conference (2011 : November 29-30)"] [" This paper aims to gauge the global effect of renminbi revaluation on stock markets. Using data on 12,300 firms in operating in tradable sectors in 44 economies, we find that expectations of renminbi appreciation reduce the relative stock returns of firms providing components or raw materials to China as inputs for that country's exports. We also find some evidence that expectations of renminbi appreciation reduce the stock prices of financially constrained firms."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper synthesizes studies analyzing the effects of capital account liberalization on industry growth while controlling for financial crises, domestic financial development and the strength of institutions. We find evidence that financial openness has positive effects on the growth of financially dependent industries, although these growth-enhancing effects evaporate during financial crises. Further analysis indicates that the positive effects of capital account liberalization are limited to countries with relatively well-developed financial systems, good accounting standards, strong creditor rights and rule of law. It suggests that countries must reach a certain threshold in terms of institutional and economic development before they can expect to benefit from capital account liberalization.'] [" We describe in this essay why the gold standard and the euro are extreme forms of fixed exchange rates, and how these policies had their most potent effects in the worst peaceful economic periods in modern times. While we are lucky to have avoided another catastrophe like the Great Depression in 2008--9, mainly by virtue of policy-makers' aggressive use of monetary and fiscal stimuli, the world economy is still experiencing many difficulties. As in the Great Depression, this second round of problems stems from the prevalence of fixed exchange rates. Fixed exchange rates facilitate business and communication in good times but intensify problems when times are bad. Copyright 2010, Oxford University Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper contemplates ambitious reforms of the international financial architecture. It proposes routinising the expansion of IMF quotas and the conduct of exchange rate surveillance. It contemplates an expanded role for the SDR in international transactions, which would require someone \xe2\x80\x94 like the IMF \xe2\x80\x94 to act as market maker. It considers proposals for reimposing Glass\xe2\x80\x93Steagall-like restrictions on commercial and investment banking, something that will have to be coordinated internationally to be feasible. All this of course presupposes meaningful IMF governance reform so that the institution has the legitimacy and efficiency to assume these additional responsibilities.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper attempts to draw out the implication of the financial crisis for emerging markets. The most important implications will center on financial markets, where there will be less reliance on portfolio capital flows to finance investment and some deglobalization of banking so that the domain of bank operations more closely coincides with the domain of regulation. By contrast, the implications for other dimensions of globalization and for the structure of the international monetary system will be more limited.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' "The Great Depression of the 1930s and the Great Credit Crisis of the 2000s had similar causes but elicited strikingly different policy responses. While it remains too early to assess the effectiveness of current policy, it is possible to analyse monetary and fiscal responses in the 1930s as a natural experiment or counterfactual capable of shedding light on the impact of current policies. We employ vector autoregressions, instrumental variables, and qualitative evidence for 27 countries in the period 1925-39. The results suggest that monetary and fiscal stimulus was effective -- that where it did not make a difference it was not tried. They shed light on the debate over fiscal multipliers in episodes of financial crisis. They are consistent with multipliers at the higher end of those estimated in the recent literature, and with the argument that the impact of fiscal stimulus will be greater when banking systems are dysfunctional and monetary policy is constrained by the zero bound." Copyright (c) CEPR, CES, MSH, 2010.'] ['The Great Recession that started in 2008 has drawn constant comparisons with the Great Depression that unfolded in 1929. This paper documents how the response of policy makers in the current episode has been markedly different from the one observed in the 1920s and 1930s and to what extent this different behavior has followed the lessons from the historical analysis of the Great Depression. The historical account is also used to discuss probable changes to the world\xe2\x80\x99s economic landscape regarding both trade and financial globalization.'] ['The Great Depression was marked by a severe outbreak of protectionist trade policies. But contrary to the presumption that all countries scrambled to raise trade barriers, there was substantial cross-country variation in the movement to protectionism. Specifically, countries that remained on the gold standard resorted to tariffs, import quotas, and exchange controls to a greater extent than countries that went off gold. Gold standard countries chose to maintain their fixed exchange rate and reduce spending on imports rather than allow their currency to depreciate. Trade protection in the 1930s was less an instance of special interest politics than second-best macroeconomic policy when monetary and fiscal policies were constrained.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We present new evidence on the currency composition of foreign exchange reserves in the 1920s and 1930s. Contrary to the presumption that the pound sterling continued to dominate the U.S. dollar in central bank reserves until after World War II, we show that the dollar first overtook sterling in the mid-1920s. This suggests that the network effects thought to lend inertia to international currency status and to create incumbency advantages for the dominant international currency do not apply in the reserve currency domain. Our new evidence is similarly incompatible with the notion that there is only room in the market for one dominant reserve currency at a point in time. Our findings have important implications for our understanding of interwar monetary history but also for the prospects of the dollar and the euro as reserve currencies.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper extends previous measures of the quality of corporate governance for a cross section of emerging markets. We find that there have been significant improvements in a wide range of countries in the course of the last ten years. Improvements are most likely in countries with stable governments, where foreign investors lobby for reform, and where peer effects are present. We also document significant benefits in terms of the depth and liquidity of financial markets. J. Japanese Int. Economies 23 (2) (2009) 149-176.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We evaluate explanations for why Germany grew so quickly in the 1950s. The recent literature has emphasized convergence, structural change and institutional shake-up while minimizing the importance of the postwar shock. We show that this shock and its consequences were more important than neoclassical convergence and structural change in explaining the rapid growth of the West German economy in the 1950s. We find little support for the hypothesis of institutional shakeup. This suggests a different interpretation of post-World War II German economic growth than features in much of the literature.'] ['This paper analyzes the conflicting explanations of the global imbalances\xe2\x80\x99 pattern and the size of the US external deficit. In this document, it is argued that, far from being incompatible, the explanations suggested are part of a broader story. The drop of the US saving rate has played a significant role in the onset of imbalances in the United States and the world at large. At the same time, favorable productivity trends turned the United States into a good place to invest, thus attracting the external savings that help finance the American investment and its current account. The excess of global savings is also a factor to be taken into account since it supports capital flows to the United States and investment in this country. Lastly, the view of the Sino-American co-dependence underlines the satisfaction level of Asian countries with a situation in which the demand for exports is disproportionately important relative to domestic demand (due to a combination of high risk aversion after the 1997-1998 crisis and an ongoing commitment with export-led growth), a position sustained through undervalued exchange rates and evidenced by the accelerated growth of US imports.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The ongoing credit crunch represents the fi rst crisis of the age of mass securitization. One conclusion sometimes drawn is that the costs of securitization, in the form of risks to fi nancial stability, exceed the benefits. The implication is that we should return to the simpler days when commercial banks originate loans to households and fi rms and hold them on their balance sheets, rather than slicing them, dicing them and selling them off. But this back-to-the-future formula ignores economic realities. Securitization is bound up with the broader deregulation of fi nancial markets and with the information-technology revolution. Policy makers cannot eliminate this process short of reimposing the kind of restrictive regulation to which banking and fi nancial systems were subject half a century ago.liquidity lines provided by financial institutions. Market liquidity depends not only on objective, exogenous factors, but also on endogenous market dynamics. Central banks responsible for systemic stability need to consider how far their traditional responsibility for the health of the banking system needs to be adapted to promote stability in the relevant financial markets. In any case, turning back the clock would not be desirable because the constellation of financial innovations referred to as securitization has real benefits for the economy. Those innovations have allowed the financial system to repackage and spread risk. They have reduced the amount of equity capital that this system requires to absorb that risk. The result has been to lower funding costs for both fi rms and homeowners as a class. In the aftermath of the Great Securitization Crisis of 2007-8, would-be reformers will surely say that financial regulators need to rethink speed limits and rules of the road. In my view, policy makers should focus on the banking system. Banks still play a unique role. They are at the center of the information-impacted segments of the financial system. Their key role and their vulnerability are recognized by the protection they receive via the financial safety net. Re-thinking should start with the role of Basel II, and within Basel II of the role of internal models and bond ratings.'] [' The relationship between democracy and globalization has been a subject of both scholarly and policy debate. Some argue that the two go hand in hand - that unrestricted international transactions encourage political accountability and transparency and that politically free societies are least likely to restrict the mobility of goods and services. But others argue that democracies, in which special interests that suffer from foreign competition have voice, are more likely to have closed markets, and vice versa. Our analysis differs from its predecessors in three ways. We seek to uncover general patterns by considering as long a period as possible and all countries with the relevant data. We consider multiple dimensions of globalization, analyzing both trade liberalization and capital account liberalization. And we estimate these relationships using an instrumental variables strategy that allows us to confront the issue of simultaneity. Our findings support the existence of positive relationships between democracy and globalization. Copyright 2008 The Authors. Journal compilation 2008 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] ['This paper provides reflects on various aspects of the subprime crisis. It asks why events originating in such a small corner of U.S. financial markets could exercise such dramatic effects. It explores what to do now - both in the short run, when the markets and the macroeconomy require stabilization, and in the longer run, when there will be a need for regulatory reform.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The accumulation of international reserves by emerging markets raises the question of how to best utilize these funds. This paper explores two routes through which the pooling of reserves could enhance stability and welfare. First, the reserve pool could be used for emergency lending in response to sudden stops. Second, a portion of the reserve pool along with borrowed funds could be used to purchase contingent debt securities issued by governments and corporations, helping to solve the first-mover problem that limits the liquidity of markets in these instruments and hinders their acceptance by private investors. This paper argues that the second option is more likely to be feasible and productive. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2007'] ["We analyze how China's emergence as a destination for foreign direct investment is affecting the ability of other countries to attract FDI. We do so using an approach that accounts for the endogeneity of China's FDI. The impact turns out to vary by region. China's rapid growth and attractions as a destination for FDI also encourages FDI flows to other Asian countries, as if producers in these economies belong to a common supply chain. There is also evidence of FDI diversion from OECD recipients. We interpret this in terms of FDI motivated by the desire to produce close to the market where the final sale takes place. For whatever reason -- limits on their ability to raise finance for investment in multiple markets or limits on their ability to control operations in diverse locations -- firms more inclined to invest in China for this reason are corresponding less inclined to invest in the OECD. A detailed analysis of Japanese foreign direct investment outflows disaggregated by sector further supports these conclusions.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' type="main" xml:lang="en"&gt;     The last two decades have seen far-reaching changes in the structure of the international monetary system. Europe moved from the European Monetary System to the euro. China adopted a dollar peg and then moved to a basket, band and crawl in 2005. Emerging markets passed through a series of crises, leading some to adopt regimes of greater exchange rate flexibility and others to rethink the pace of capital account liberalization. Interpreting these developments is no easy task: some observers conclude that recent trends are confirmation of the \xe2\x80\x98bipolar view\xe2\x80\x99 that intermediate exchange rate arrangements are disappearing, while members of the \xe2\x80\x98fear of floating school\xe2\x80\x99 conclude precisely the opposite. We show that the two views can be reconciled if one distinguishes countries by their stage of economic and financial development. Among the advanced countries, intermediate regimes have essentially disappeared; this supports the bipolar view for the group of countries for which it was first developed. Within this subgroup, the dominant movement has been toward hard pegs, reflecting monetary unification in Europe. While emerging markets have also seen a decline in the prevalence of intermediate arrangements, these regimes still account for more than a third of the relevant subsample. Here the majority of the evacuees have moved to floats rather than fixes, reflecting the absence of EMU-like arrangements in other parts of the world. Among developing countries, the prevalence of intermediate regimes has again declined, but less dramatically. Where these regimes accounted for two-thirds of the developing country subsample in 1990, they account for a bit more than half of that subsample today. As with emerging markets, the majority of those abandoning the middle have moved to floats rather than hard pegs. The gradual nature of these trends does not suggest that intermediate regimes will disappear outside the advanced countries anytime soon.  \xe2\x80\x94 Barry Eichengreen and Raul Razo-Garcia  '] [' This paper makes the case that Asian countries should start preparing now for a disorderly correction of global imbalances. It points to six measures they should take: allowing their currencies to appreciate against the dollar as a way of limiting their dependence on the U.S. market; accelerating regional trade initiatives to support their export sectors; using fiscal policy to sustain domestic demand; developing their financial markets; allowing intraregional exchange rates to move to accommodate differences in the impact of the shock and the scope for offsetting action; and enhancing regional cooperation to address free-rider and firstmover problems that might otherwise discourage these adjustments. (c) 2006 The Earth Institute at Columbia University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ["Peter Isard's recent book (Globalization and the International Financial System: What's Wrong and What Can be Done?, Cambridge University Press, 2005) provides a thoughtful and balanced review of the scholarly literature on the past operation and potential reform of the international monetary and financial system. The author's approach, from which much can be learned, is to draw lessons from the history of exchange rates and capital flows and, especially, from the financial crises of the 1990s. But this retrospective focus is also revealing of what is new and different about our current international monetary and financial environment and in the ongoing debate surrounding the future of its steward, the International Monetary Fund."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" A growing body of evidence suggests that China's emergence is having differential effects on Asia's advanced and developing countries. The region's advanced countries are benefiting from the existence of a large and rapidly growing Chinese market for their capital goods, components and technology, whereas its developing countries compete head to head with China in third markets. These facts create additional challenges for late-industrializing Asian countries seeking to catch up with the region's industrial leaders. In turn, the emergence of an Asian core and periphery will not encourage the development of a cohesive Asian economic and political bloc. Asian regionalism will be open regionalism in order to prevent regional initiatives from giving rise to costly trade diversion. Efforts to promote Asian financial development and integration are unlikely to come at the expense of the region's financial links with the rest of the world. An early move toward a common exchange rate regime with the associated common monetary stance will be problematic. And, in the absence of these common policies, pressure for the development of powerful regional institutions to formulate the common monetary stance will be at best modest. Copyright 2006 Institute of World Economics and Politics, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The IMF attempts to stabilize private capital flows to emerging markets by providing public monitoring and emergency finance. In analyzing its role we contrast cases where banks and bondholders do the lending. Banks have a natural advantage in monitoring and creditor coordination, while bonds have superior risk sharing characteristics. Consistent with this assumption, banks reduce spreads as they obtain more information through repeat transactions with borrowers. By comparison, repeat borrowing has little influence in bond markets, where publicly-available information dominates. But spreads on bonds are lower when they are issued in conjunction with IMF-supported programs, as if the existence of a program conveyed positive information to bondholders. The influence of IMF monitoring in bond markets is especially pronounced for countries vulnerable to liquidity crises.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['An influential school of thought views the current international monetary and financial system as Bretton Woods reborn. Today, like 40 years ago, the international system is composed of a core, which has the exorbitant privilege of issuing the currency used as international reserves, and a periphery, which is committed to export-led growth based on the maintenance of an undervalued exchange rate. In the 1960s, the core was the United States and the periphery was Europe and Japan. Now, with the spread of globalization, there is a new periphery, Asia, but the same old core, the United States, with the same tendency to live beyond its means. This view suggests that the current pattern of international settlements can be maintained indefinitely. The United States can continue running current account deficits because the emerging markets of Asia and Latin America are happy to accumulate dollars. There is no reason why the dollar must fall, since there is no need for balance of payments adjustment; in particular, the Asian countries will resist the appreciation of their currencies against the greenback. I argue that this image of a new Bretton Woods System confuses the incentives that confronted individual countries under Bretton Woods with the incentives that confronted groups of countries. It imagines the existence of a cohesive bloc of countries called the periphery ready and able to act in their collective interest. I argue, to the contrary, that the countries of Asia constituting the new periphery are unlikely to be able to subordinate their individual interest to the collective interest. This image of the current system as Bretton Woods reborn also overlooks how the world has changed since the 1960s. This alternative reading of history and current circumstances suggests that even if there exists today something vaguely resembling the Bretton Woods System, it is not long for this world.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The paper offers some reflections on the convergence of productivity in the United States and Europe, which essentially stopped in the 1990s. It argues that the barriers preventing further convergence in the early 1990s were removed subsequently. But since then trends in productivity growth have been importantly affected by the advent of the New Economy, which poses further challenges for Europe. Without additional reform of European labor markets, financial markets, and university systems, we may be on the eve of another era of persistent divergence. Copyright Blackwell Publishing Ltd 2004.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We compare launch spreads on emerging-market bonds subject to UK governing law, which typically include collective action clauses, with spreads on bonds subject to US law, which do not. Collective-action clauses reduce the cost of borrowing for more creditworthy issuers, who appear to benefit from the ability to avail themselves of an orderly restructuring process. Less creditworthy issuers, in contrast, pay higher spreads. It appears that for less creditworthy borrowers the advantages of orderly restructuring are offset by the moral hazard and default risk associated with the presence of renegotiation-friendly loan provisions. We draw out the implications for the debate over whether to encourage the wider utilisation of these provisions as part of the effort to strengthen the international financial architecture. Copyright 2004 Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' An important instance of regional cooperation in Asia is the Chiang Mai Initiative (CMI) for swap lines and credits agreed to by the ASEAN+3 countries in May 2000. This agreement reflects the desire to buttress financial stability following the searing crisis of 1997-98 and the recognition that governments can better achieve this collectively than individually. The question is to what end the resources of the CMI will be directed. This paper argues that using the swap lines and credits of the CMI to support a system of common basket pegs for East Asian currencies would not enhance financial stability; to the contrary, it would be a costly mistake. It would be better to devote these resources to a collective effort to develop securities markets in the region, thereby addressing the fundamental problem, of which exchange-rate instability is one symptom. Copyright (c) 2003 Center for International Development and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['This paper provides new empirical evidence relevant to the debate over the desirability of reforms to the way that financial markets and the international community deal with sovereign debt crises. In particular, given the ongoing opposition of investors and some sovereigns to greater use of collective action clauses (CACs) in emerging market bonds, we present new evidence on the way that financial markets have priced the use or non-use of CACs.'] ["[eng] Are Turkey and Argentina's crises the last of a dying breed ? . This paper assesses recent events in Turkey and Argentina for the light they shed on official efforts to better prevent and resolve financial crises. A case can be made that progress on the official agenda has begun to make the world a safer financial place. This is evident in the relatively limited international spillovers of the Turkish and Argentine crises. More flexible exchange rates in other emerging markers have added an additional margin for adjustment. Improved supervision and regulation and reduced leverage in the international financial system have limited banking-sector distress and weakened the operation of the common-creditor channel for the spread of financial difficulties. Still, it could simply be that the Turkish and Argentine crises were more widely foreseen and anticipated than most of their predecessors, allowing financial market participants to hedge their exposures. . JEL classification : E44, F31, G15 [fre] Cet article apporte de nouveaux \xc3\xa9claircissements sur les efforts des instances officielles pour mieux pr\xc3\xa9venir et r\xc3\xa9soudre les crises financi\xc3\xa8res. Les progr\xc3\xa8s r\xc3\xa9alis\xc3\xa9s ont permis de faire de la sc\xc3\xa8ne internationale une place financi\xc3\xa8re plus s\xc3\xbbre. Les retomb\xc3\xa9es internationales relativement limit\xc3\xa9es des crises en Turquie et en Argentine le d\xc3\xa9montrent clairement. La plus grande flexibilit\xc3\xa9 des taux de change sur d'autres march\xc3\xa9s \xc3\xa9mergents a apport\xc3\xa9 le b\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9fice d'une marge d'ajustement suppl\xc3\xa9mentaire. L'am\xc3\xa9lioration du contr\xc3\xb4le et de la r\xc3\xa9gulation, ainsi qu'un niveau d'endettement r\xc3\xa9duit du syst\xc3\xa8me financier international ont limit\xc3\xa9 la d\xc3\xa9tresse du secteur bancaire et affaibli le r\xc3\xb4le du r\xc3\xa9seau des cr\xc3\xa9anciers habituels \xc3\xa0 l'origine de la propagation des difficult\xc3\xa9s financi\xc3\xa8res. Toutefois, il se pourrait simplement que les crises en Turquie et en Argentine aient \xc3\xa9t\xc3\xa9 plus largement pr\xc3\xa9vues et anticip\xc3\xa9es que la plupart des crises pr\xc3\xa9c\xc3\xa9dentes, permettant ainsi aux acteurs du march\xc3\xa9 financier de mieux se prot\xc3\xa9ger. . Classification JEL : E44, F31, G15"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Reform of the mechanisms and procedures through which problems of sovereign debt sustainability are resolved is at the centre of the effort to make the international financial system less crisis prone. The purported difficulty of coordinating creditors holding distinct bond issues provides one basis for choosing among the reform proposals currently on the table. We assess the significance of this difficulty (\xe2\x80\x98the aggregation problem\xe2\x80\x99) using evidence on the pricing of international bonds. Our evidence suggests that investors do perceive that aggregation has costs. Plausibly, they worry most about difficulties of information sharing and coordination across issues when the debt in question is an obligation of a country with a significant perceived probability of having to restructure.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Much ink has been spilled over the connections between capital account liberalization and growth. One reason that previous studies have been inconclusive, we show, is their failure to account for the impact of crises on growth and for the capacity of controls to limit those disruptive output effects. Accounting for these influences, it appears that controls influence macroeconomic performance through two channels, directly (what we think of as their positive impact on resource allocation and efficiency) and indirectly (by limiting the disruptive effects of crises at home and abroad). Because these influences work in opposite directions, it is not surprising that previous studies, in failing to distinguish between them, have been unable to agree whether the effect of controls tilts one way or the other. And because vulnerability to crises varies across countries and with the structure and performance of the international financial system, it is not surprising that the effects of capital account liberalization on growth are contingent and context specific. We document these patterns using two entirely different data sets: a panel of historical data for 21 countries covering the period 1880-1997, and a wider panel for the post-1971 period like that employed in other recent studies. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2003 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] [' We consider the political economy of exchange rate choice and its implications for economic growth from an historical perspective. Previous studies have tended to find only a weak association between the choice of exchange rate regime on the one hand and growth and cohesion on the other. Our findings confirm this negative result, but then go on to explain it by showing that the implications of the exchange rate regime for growth and cohesion are context-specific. They show that the choice of entry rate is important and that when the global monetary regime operates as an engine of deflation it is inadvisable for countries to link up to it. We draw out the implications of these findings for the debate over Britain and the euro. Copyright (c) Blackwell Publishing Ltd 2003.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Implicit in the debate over dollarization are two very different views of sequencing of policy measures. One view is that dollarization, to work smoothly and yield more benefits than costs, must wait on the completion of complementary reforms. The other view is that dollarization need not wait on these other reforms because the very act of dollarizing will produce the changes needed to smooth the operation of the new regime. In this paper I consider these arguments as they apply to the cases of labor-market reform, fiscal reform, and financial-sector reform. I conclude that neither theory nor evidence suggests that removing all scope for an independent monetary policy will necessarily accelerate the pace of reform.'] ['This lecture considers how Europe\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x84\xa2s monetary union will evolve in the next five to ten years. It concentrates on what is likely to be the most important change in that period, namely, the increasing number and heterogeneity of participating states. By 2006, less than four years from now, it is virtually certain that EMU will be enlarged to include a number of Eastern European countries that have not yet been admitted to the EU itself. These new members will differ sharply from the incumbents in terms of their economic structures, their per capita incomes, and their growth rates. The analysis focuses on the implications of this momentous change for the structure, organization and operation of EMU.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" We develop a model of monetary and fiscal policies appropriate for considering U.S.-European policy interactions in an era of near-balanced budgets and European monetary union. We study the determinants of policy trade-offs and incentives for central banks and governments across the Atlantic. Smaller, more open economies face more favorable trade-offs, since openness enhances policy effectiveness via the exchange-rate channel. Changes in Europe's monetary arrangements do not affect U.S. trade-offs, although they alter the trade-offs facing European policy-makers. Fiscal trade-offs depend crucially on the extent to which fiscal policy is distortionary. Changes in taxes and spending move both employment and inflation in the desired direction following a worldwide supply shock when spending is financed with distortionary taxes. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 2002"] ['We present new evidence on the use of leverage by hedge funds and on how this changed following Russia\xe2\x80\x99s default and the near failure of Long-Term Capital Management in the summer and fall of 1998. We use regression techniques and survey data to analyze how leverage varies with fund attributes. We show that leverage varies with investment style, regulatory status, and a variety of other fund characteristics. While the use of leverage fell across the board between 1998 and 1999, it appears that hedge funds whose investment styles, regulatory status and other attributes were associated with the greatest utilization of leverage before the crisis reduced their use of it most sharply thereafter.'] ["In this paper we analyse the recent efforts of the international financial institutions to limit the moral hazard created by their assistance to crisis countries. We question the wisdom of the case-by-case approach taken in Pakistan, Ecuador, Romania and Ukraine. We show that because default and restructuring are so painful and costly, it is simply not time consistent for the IFIs to plan to stand aside if the markets refuse to roll over maturing claims, restructure problem debts, or provide new money. Because these realities create an incentive to disburse even if investors fail to comply, the IFIs are then placed in the position of having to back down on their previous conditionality, which undermines their credibility. And since investors are aware of these facts, their behaviour is unlikely to be modified by the IFIs' less-than-credible statements of intent. Hence, this approach to 'bailing in the private sector' will not work. Fortunately, there is an alternative: introducing collective-action clauses into loan agreements. This, and not ad hoc efforts to bail in the private sector, is the forward-looking solution to the moral hazard problem.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper analyzes the determinants of spreads on syndicated bank lending to emerging markets, treating the loan-extension and pricing decisions as jointly determined. Compared to the bond market, our findings highlight the role of international banks in providing credit to smaller borrowers about whom information is least complete and, more generally, support the interpretation of bank finance as dominating that segment of international financial markets characterized by the most pronounced information asymmetries. Domestic lending booms and low reserves in relation to short-term debt have been priced in the expected manner by international banks. The high level of short-term debt in East Asia was supported by high growth rates but was characterized by a knife-edge quality.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper analyses the extent to which ASEAN may be suitable for a regional monetary arrangement. On the economic front, we review evidence on patterns of trade, economic shocks, the extent of factor mobility, and the monetary transmission mechanism. We find that ASEAN today is less suitable for a regional monetary arrangement than the euro area was before the Maastricht Treaty, but the differences are not large. On the political front, we analyse the prerequisites for monetary integration in light of 50 years of European experience. We conclude that a firm political commitment would be the key to ensuring that an attempt to form a regional monetary arrangement is not viewed as simply another fixed exchange rate system open to speculative attack. That commitment would have to be strong enough to survive for an extended period and to support difficult decisions such as rendering the central bank independent, adhering to fiscal and exchange rate arrangements even if the policy stance conflicts with that which would be adopted on the basis of purely domestic considerations, and accepting supranational directives. These are very considerable prerequisites for success.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' type="main" xml:lang="en"&gt; This paper reviews the prospects for the exchange rate system in different parts of the world. It discounts radical changes like a single world currency and a trio of regional monetary unions: in Europe, where intergration is political as well as economic and financial, the euro should provide the basis for an expanding zone of monetary stability; in the Americas, in contrast, dollarization is likely to be the solution for countries with strong financial links to the USA that find it difficult to run an autonomous monetary policy; and in Asia, continued floating is the only plausible outcome, given the obstacles to the alternatives. (J.E.L.: F3)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In this paper we analyze three views of the relationship between the exchange rate and financial fragility: (1) the moral hazard hypothesis, according to which pegged exchange rates offer implicit insurance against exchange risk and thereby encourage reckless borrowing and lending; (2) the original sin hypothesis, which emphasizes an incompleteness in financial markets which prevents the domestic currency from being used to borrow abroad or to borrow long term even domestically; and (3) the commitment problem hypothesis, which sees financial crises as resulting from neither moral hazard nor original sin but from the weakness of the institutions that address commitment problems. We examine the evidence on these hypotheses and draw out their implications for exchange-rate policy in emerging markets.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Why do governments find it so difficult to move from pegged exchange rates to greater exchange rate flexibility? The author first establishes that there is a problem to be solved: that there are powerful incentives for greater flexibility deriving from changes in the international economic and financial environment but that policymakers find it difficult to engineer a smooth transition. He offers practical suggestions and a framework under which the probability of a smooth transition can be maximized. Drawing examples from recent economic history, the author then attempts to understand the experience of selected countries that have undertaken this transition.'] [' This paper considers the role of hedge funds in international financial markets, with a focus on market manipulation, the issue of concern to smaller countries, and systemic stability, the issue of concern to larger ones. To address market integrity, it recommends expanding the coverage of the US Large Trade and Position Reporting System and establishing analogous reporting mechanisms in other countries where they do not presently exist. To address systemic stability, it recommends tightening up supervision of hedge fund counterparties and strengthening market discipline. It concludes that emerging markets at risk from hedge fund operations have no choice but to protect themselves. Self-protection in this context means adopting more flexible exchange rates as a way of removing the one-way bets that hedge fund managers find irresistible and placing holding period taxes on portfolio investments to discourage the round-tripping they find so attractive. Copyright 1999 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd.'] [" Latin America's economies have made tremendous improvements in recent years. Following the lost decade of the 1980s, economic growth has resumed. But the fruits of this progress remain to be consolidated. The political consensus supporting reform is fragile, and the economies of the region are still susceptible to destabilizing shocks, as recent events have underscored. Even well-devised economic policy strategies can be thrown off course by disturbances. This article proposes an institutional reform\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x80\x9da National Fiscal Council\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x80\x9ddesigned to allow Latin American countries to break out of this vicious circle. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 1999"] [" We analyse the institutional determinants of economic performance, taking European labour-market institutions as a case in point. European economic growth after the Second World War was based on Fordist technologies, a setting to which the continent's institutions of solidaristic wage bargaining were ideally suited. They eased distributive conflicts and delivered wage moderation, which in turn supported high investment. The wage compression that was a corollary of their operation was of little consequence so long as the dominant technologies were such that firms could rely on a relatively homogeneous labour force. But as Fordism gave way to diversified quality production, which relied more on highly skilled workers, the centralization of bargaining and the compression of wages became impediments rather than aids to growth. Assuming that growth will rely even more in the future on rapidly changing, science-based, skilled-labour-intensive technologies, countries with centralized labour-market institutions will have to move still further in the direction of decentralization. Whether Europe in particular can accommodate these demands will help to determine whether it is able to re-establish a full employment economy in the twenty-first century. Copyright 1999 by Oxford University Press."] ['This article adopts economics as a perspective from which to view recent research in international relations. The most telling difference between international relations and economics, it argues, is in the connection between theory and empirical work. The strength of economics is the complementary and mutually supporting character of theoretical and empirical work. In international relations, in contrast, the connections between theory and empirics are looser. As a consequence, research in international relations has not converged to a core of common theoretical assumptions and an arsenal of commonly accepted empirical techniques.'] ['We show that the variables pointed to by the theory of optimum currency areas (OCAs) help to explain patterns of exchange rate variability and intervention across countries. But OCA considerations affect exchange market pressures and intervention in different ways. Exchange market pressures mainly reflect asymmetric shocks, while intervention largely reflects the variables that OCA theory suggests cause countries to value stable exchange rates (small size and the extent of trade links). Intervention and exchange market pressure also vary with the structure of the international monetary system.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["[fre] Le Trait\xc3\xa9 de Maastricht sur l'Union Europ\xc3\xa9enne comporte une Proc\xc3\xa9dure des D\xc3\xa9ficits Excessifs limitant la libert\xc3\xa9 d'emprunter des gouvernements dans l'union mon\xc3\xa9taire europ\xc3\xa9enne. Cette proc\xc3\xa9dure a pour justification d'emp\xc3\xaacher les \xc3\x89tats de sur-emprunter et de demander un renflouement qui pourrait d\xc3\xa9tourner la Banque Centrale Europ\xc3\xa9enne de sa mission de maintien de la stabilit\xc3\xa9 des prix. Nous remettons en cause ce raisonnement. Utilisant des donn\xc3\xa9es relatives \xc3\xa0 plusieurs \xc3\x89tats f\xc3\xa9d\xc3\xa9raux, nous montrons qu'il n'existe pas de lien entre union mon\xc3\xa9taire et restrictions d'emprunt par les gouvernements locaux. Il existe, cependant, un lien entre les restrictions budg\xc3\xa9taires et la part de l'assiette fiscale sous le contr\xc3\xb4le des autorit\xc3\xa9s locales.. Les implications pour l'Union Europ\xc3\xa9enne sont directes. Le fait que les \xc3\x89tats membres de l'Union Europ\xc3\xa9enne contr\xc3\xb4lent leurs propres imp\xc3\xb4ts devrait renforcer le pouvoir des autorit\xc3\xa9s cherchant \xc3\xa0 r\xc3\xa9sister aux pressions en faveur d'un renflouement. Cependant, \xc3\xa0 plus long terme, les restrictions d'emprunt pourraient affaiblir la position financi\xc3\xa8re de Bruxelles, transf\xc3\xa9rant le risque de renflouement des \xc3\x89tats membres vers l'Union Europ\xc3\xa9enne elle-m\xc3\xaame. [eng] Policy Mix and monetary union : is there a tradeoff between federalism and budgetary restrictions. The Maastricht Treaty on Europe Union features an Excessive Deficit Procedure limiting the freedom to borrow of government participating in the European monetary union. One justification is to prevent states from over-borrowing and demanding a bailout which could divert the European Central Bank from its pursuit of price stability. We challenge this rationale. Using data from a cross section of federal states, we show that there is no association between monetary union and restraints on borrowing by sub-central government. There is however an association between fiscal restraints and the share of the tax base under the control of sub-national authorities. . The implications for the EU are direct. That EU member states control their own taxes should strengthen the hand of authorities seeking to resist pressure from a bailout. In the longer run, however, borrowing restrains may weaken the financial position of Brussels, transferring bailout risk from the member states to the EU itself."] [' Historical evidence reveals no monocausal explanation for banking crises, including one which would emphasize the maintenance of a currency peg. To some extent this follows from the standard textbook wisdom: whether fixed or flexible exchange rates are preferable depends on the source of disturbances. If threats to the stability of the banking system come from the \xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xc5\x93outside,\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac there is a case for exchange rate flexibility to discourage the banks from relying excessively on external sources of finance and to enhance the capacity of the domestic authorities to act as lenders of last resort. Conversely, if the main threats to the stability of the banking system emanate from \xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xc5\x93inside\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac (e.g., erratic monetary policies at home), there is an argument for attempting to peg the exchange rate in order to discipline domestic policymakers and vent shocks via the external sector. From this point of view, it is no surprise that there is no simple correlation between the exchange rate regime and the prevalence of banking crises. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 1998'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Qualitative accounts have long emphasized the level of interest rates in the advanced industrial countries as a determinant of capital flows to emerging markets and spreads on external debt. Curiously, econometric studies relying on disaggregated data have lent little support to this hypothesis. Upon modelling the issue and pricing decisions jointly, we confirm that global credit conditions have an important impact on the market for developing-country debt. US rates have a negative impact on the demand by international investors for fixed-rate issues by Latin American borrowers, as predicted by the search-for-yield hypothesis. The same effect is apparent for East Asian floating-rate issues, although the evidence there is not as robust. But, whatever the region, this effect is evident only upon controlling for the impact of US interest rates on the decision of developing-country borrowers to issue debt. Copyright 1998 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd.'] [" This article takes stock of the literature and debate over European monetary unification. In contrast to other papers, where it is argued that the issues and prospects remain shrouded in uncertainty, I argue that in a number of important areas, a reasonable degree of consensus now exists, as the result of a decade of scholarship. The subsequent stock-taking concentrates on areas where significant questions remain, starting with the implications of surrendering the exchange rate and an independent national monetary policy as instruments of adjustment; the conduct of fiscal policy under the Excessive Deficit Procedure and the Stability Pact; and how quickly the European union is likely to develop an EU-wide system of fiscal federalism to accompany its monetary union. Turning from fiscal to monetary issues, I ask whether the European Central Bank (ECB) will be as inflation averse as the Bundesbank, what exchange-rate policy the ECB will pursue, and whether the euro will be a leading reserve currency. I conclude with what may be the most contentious issue of all, namely whether Europe's monetary union could collapse after it begins. Copyright 1998 by Oxford University Press."] ["European policymakers have repeatedly suggested that fiscal-policy coordination and fiscal federalism will play key roles in Europe's monetary union. This paper warns that this hope is misplaced. Fiscal federalism will not be available to offset recessionary shocks for the foreseeable future. The effects of coordination designed to internalise the cross-border spillovers of fiscal policies are too weak. Freeing up fiscal policy to replace national governments' loss of monetary independence requires allowing European countries' automatic stabilisers to operate. That in turn requires a flexible application of the Excessive Deficit Procedure and the Stability Pact. The solution suggested here is that the Excessive Deficit Procedure and any fines and sanctions associated with the Stability Pact be applied to the constant-employment budget balance, not the actual deficit. Applying them to actual deficits when European countries enter EMU up against the 3 per cent limit will render fiscal policy strongly procyclical, aggravating the problem of macroeconomic fragility created by the loss of monetary autonomy. Still, countries like Germany haunted by the spectre of fiscal pro fligacy need to be reassured that member states will not abuse their fiscal discretion. Procedural and institutional reform to offset the deficit bias in national political systems is the obvious quid pro quo."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The authors address the fact that the incidence of speculative attacks tends to be temporally correlated; that is, currency crises appear to pass 'contagiously' from one country to another. The paper provides a survey of the theoretical literature. The authors also provide empirical evidence consistent with the contagious nature of currency crises. They estimate that the existence of a currency crisis elsewhere in the world (whether successful or not) raises the probability of an attack on the domestic currency by 8 percent, even after taking account of a variety of domestic political and economic factors. Copyright 1996 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Trends in international finance in recent decades have inspired considerable research on bloc- and band-based international monetary arrangements. From this literature has emerged models providing the basis for much recent work in international monetary economics. To date, however, their application to historical experience has been rare. The authors, therefore, highlight parallels between modern-day target zones, on the one hand, and the classical and interwar gold standards and Bretton Woods System, on the other. They suggest that bloc-based international monetary arrangements are in fact an historical commonplace; they have been the rule rather than the exception. Copyright 1996 by Scottish Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper studies the effect of foreign aid on economic stabilization. Following Alberto Alesina and Allan Drazen (1991), the authors model the delay in stabilizing as the result of a distributional struggle. Since the delay is used to signal each faction's strength, the effect of the transfer depends on the role it plays in the release of information. The authors show that this role depends on the timing of the transfer: foreign aid decided and transferred sufficiently early into the game leads to earlier stabilization; but aid decided or transferred too late is destabilizing and encourages further postponement of reforms. Copyright 1996 by Royal Economic Society."] ['State budgets played a significant macroeconomic role in the United States during the 1970s and 1980s. Their cyclical responsiveness was affected by the severity of statutory and constitutional fiscal restraints. Moving from no fiscal restraints to stringent restraints lowered the fiscal offset to income fluctuations by roughly 40 percent. Simulations indicate that a reduction in aggregate fiscal stabilizers of this size could lead to a significant increase in the variance of aggregate output.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Arguments for financing infrastructure development through government subsidies and foreign borrowing meet with increasing skepticism. Numerous"white elephants"subsidized by governments have strengthened doubts about the efficacy of public finance, and the debt-servicing problems of the 1980s have weakened arguments for foreign borrowing. Recent innovative suggestions for financing infrastructure investments in developing countries have a back-to-the-future quality. At the heart of the nineteenth century debate on financing infrastructure development - especially railways - lay certain concepts: relying on private finance, encouraging the growth of domestic financial markets, and choosing financial instruments that minimize the risk of dependence on foreign funds. The author reviews the historical record in an attempt to glean lessons for developing countries today. In the nineteenth century, much as in many of today\'s less developed and less liberalized economies, not all the informational and contractual preconditions for efficient private or commercial finance of infrastructure projects prevailed. In some regions, it was difficult to tap investors at home or abroad. Many countries lacked the private institutions (such as universal banks) and public ones (such as regulatory agencies) needed to facilitate monitoring, to discipline management, and to ensure an adequate flow of information to investors. In places as diverse as Canada, India, Spain, and the United States, getting enough finance often required that the government provide collateral (land grants) and bond guarantees - especially where asymmetric information caused credit rationing. The main lessons: exploiting nontraditional approaches to financing infrastructure investment requires action on two fronts. First, liberalizing and developing domestic financial markets. And second reforming administrative mechanisms that ensure accountability from enterprises enjoying government subsidies or guara<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper considers the extent to which the North American Free Trade Area (NAFTA) meets the criteria for a common currency area. NAFTA is compared with the EC, a regional grouping for which initial plans for a monetary union are already in place. Most of the anticipated benefits from a monetary union in the EC apply with equal force to NAFTA. However, because the underlying disturbances are more diverse across members of NAFTA, the costs of abandoning the exchange rate instrument are likely to be higher. This is particularly true when NAFTA is compared to the EC\xe2\x80\x99s continental core.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["[fre] Pourquoi le SME a explos\xc3\xa9 et comment le relancer ?. . Les quatre interpr\xc3\xa9tations avanc\xc3\xa9es \xc3\xa0 la suite des crises de change de 1992 et de 1993 sont probablement compl\xc3\xa9mentaires. Les le\xc3\xa7ons \xc3\xa0 tirer conduisent \xc3\xa0 porter un jugement pessimiste sur les possibilit\xc3\xa9s de survie du SME et donc du trait\xc3\xa9 de Maastricht, faisant m\xc3\xaame planer une menace sur le March\xc3\xa9 commun. La plupart des mesures propos\xc3\xa9es pour faire face \xc3\xa0 la nouvelle situation ignorent l'une ou l'autre de ces le\xc3\xa7ons. La tendance dominante est de parier sur un heu\xc2\xadreux concours de circonstances. Il est pr\xc3\xa9f\xc3\xa9rable de pr\xc3\xa9voir le pire. Une mesure prudentielle simple, l'obligation d'un d\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xb4t non r\xc3\xa9mun\xc3\xa9r\xc3\xa9 sur les positions ouvertes, restaure l'\xc3\xa9l\xc3\xa9ment de stabilit\xc3\xa9 perdu avec l'abandon des contr\xc3\xb4les de change. [eng] Why did the ems blow-up and how to fix it . . Four usual interpretations of the exchange crises of 1992 and 1993 are not mutually exclusive. Taken together, however, they send an ominous signal about EMS chances of survival and the prospects for achieving monetary union along the Unes of the Maastricht Treaty. The Common Market's future itself might be at stake over the longer run. A number of proposais have been advanced recently. Unfortunately each of them fail to properly take into account one or the other among the lessons drawn from the crises. The risk is that we now hope for the best. Proper policy planning ought to be ready for the worst. This paper porposes a simple prudential measure, establishing mandatory deposits on open positions."] [' The authors analyze the comparative macroeconomic performance of the Bretton Woods System of pegged exchange rates and the post-Bretton Woods float. The change in volatility of prices and output following the shift to floating does not appear to have been associated with differences in underlying aggregate-supply and aggregate-demand shocks. Rather, under fixed rates, monetary policy had to be adjusted to stabilize the exchange rate, flattening the demand curve and thereby increasing the output response and reducing the price response to aggregate supply shocks. Following the shift to floating, monetary policy was freed, steepening the demand curve and increasing price volatility relative to output volatility. Copyright 1994 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In this paper we attempt to relate the discussion of the discovery and production of gold which appears in the literature on international monetary economics to that found in writings on economic development in the regions of recent settlement. An examination of both national and regional evidence, with emphasis on U.S. experience in the late nineteenth century, suggests that the influence of real gold prices on production is not dominant, and that other economic conditions (such as prior levels of settlement) cannot be ignored.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' European monetary unification (EMU) - the creation of a single European currency and a European Central Bank - is both an economic and a political phenomenon. Yet few studies have attempted to address simultaneously the political and economic dimensions of the process. In this introduction, we review and extend the relevant literatures. The evidence leads us to conclude that EMU is driven mainly by political rather than economic factors, although our understanding of even these political forces remains incomplete. Copyright 1993 Blackwell Publishers Ltd..'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['A computable general equilibrium model is used to examine effects of removing U.S. tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade. The model differs from traditional disaggregated trade models in its attention to intertemporal decision-making, adjustment dynamics, and international capital mobility. Unilateral elimination of tariffs would reduce the welfare of U.S. households by 0.4 percent. Elimination of quantitative restrictions, in contrast, would increase U.S. welfare by 1.1 percent. The international cross-ownership of capital associated with internationally mobile capital significantly influences the distribution of capital gains and losses from trade liberalization. Disregarding cross-ownership leads to understatement of the domestic welfare losses from tariff removal and overstatement of the domestic welfare gains from eliminating quantitative restrictions.'] ['The parallels between debt crises past and present have attracted a large number of social scientists to the history of foreign lending and default. In this article, I describe the findings of the recent literature on the subject. The questions posed have obvious relevance to the current policy debate over the debt of less-developed countries. What features of international capital markets have long rendered them vulnerable to generalized crisis? What events tend to spawn debt-servicing difficulties and to provoke default? What have been the consequences of default for lenders and borrowers? What approaches historically have proven most effective at clearing away the residue of debt crises? I concentrate on 20th century experience: on the lending of the 1920s, on the debt crisis of the 1930s, and on the recovery of capital markets after World War II.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper reviews and assesses international explanations for the depth and duration of the Great Depression. Many of the conclusions are negative. The U.S. Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act of 1930 came too late to account for the 1929 downturn and fails to explain the severity of the contraction in the U.S. The competitive devaluations of the 1930s redistributed the Depression's effects across countries but did not worsen it overall. The deflationary consequences of the liquidation of foreign exchange reserves were minor. Domestic central bank policies and their failure to be coordinated internationally must bear the major responsibility for the Depression. Copyright 1988 Western Economic Association International."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Several controversial recent studies seek to explain interwar Britain's high unemployment rate in terms of the generosity of her unemployment-insurance system. All of these studies are macroeconomic in nature. In contrast, this paper employs a micro economic sample of some 2,400 adult males to analyze the relationship of unemployment benefits to unemployment in 1929-31. The author find s a generally positive but small association between unemployment inc idence and the estimated benefit/wage ratio, but one limited largely to secondary workers. The contribution of insurance benefits to inter war unemployment turns out to be small in the context of the Great De pression. Copyright 1987 by Royal Economic Society."] ['This paper presents an analysis of data on male workers taken from an 1894 survey of the Iowa labor market. Consistent with the results of earlier research by Paul Douglas, the author finds evidence of a statistically significant and economically important union earnings premium. The analysis also shows that late nineteenth-century unionism, like unionism in the twentieth century, tended to reduce wage dispersion. On the other hand, the author finds no evidence that late nineteenth-century unions reduced the length of the workday for union members compared to nonunion workers. (Abstract courtesy JSTOR.)'] ["This paper provides an historical perspective on the recent behavior of the U.S. trade deficit. Judged by U.S. historical experience, the trade deficit has reached what is now unprecedented levels. That unprecedented deficit has its principal source not in changes in market structure affecting the speed with which quantities respond to prices but in the policy environment, namely the monetary-fiscal policy mix. While other industrial countries have run comparable merchandise trade deficits at various points in the past, these countries either financed their deficits out of interest earnings on prior foreign investments or through the large-scale export of services, or used the debt they incurred to finance investment in infra- structure and to expand their capacity to export. Neither of these scenarios has a counterpart in current U.S. experience. How easily can the trade deficit be eliminated if historical experience is a guide? Typically, the rapid reduction of deficits has been achieved through the reduction of imports; this typically entails restraints on aggregate demand from which recession results. Trade deficits have been reduced most quickly and at lowest cost when at least one of two conditions prevails: a favorable shock to the terms of trade or a reallocation of resources toward investment in export-oriented sectors. The first of these conditions is largely beyond the authorities' control, while the second must be initiated well in advance. Barring a fortuitous terms-of-trade shock, this does not give cause for optimism that the conditions are present for rapidly eliminating the U.S. trade deficit at low cost.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper analyzes the 'debt crisis' of the 1930s to see what light this historical experience sheds on recent difficulties in international capital markets. We first consider patterns of overseas lending and borrowing in the 1920s and 1930s, comparing the performance of standard models of foreign borrowing in this period to the 1970s-80s. Next, we analyze the incidence and extent of default on sovereign debt, adapting models of debt capacity to the circumstances of the interwar years. We consider the choices available to investors in those foreign loans which lapsed into default in the 1930s, emphasizing the distinction between creditor banks and bondholders. Finally, we provide the first estimates of the realized rate of return on foreign loans floated between the wars, based on a sample of dollar and sterling bonds issued in the 1920s.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Currency depreciation in the 1930s is almost universally dismissed or condemned. It is credited with providing little if any stimulus for economic recovery in the depreciating countries and blamed for transmitting harmful beggar-thy-neighbor impulses to the rest of the world econonv. In this paper we argue for a radically different interpretation of exchange-rate policy in the 1930s . We document first that currency depreciation was beneficial for the initiating countries. It worked through both the standard supply- and demand-side channels suggested by modern variants of the Keynesian model. We show next that there can in fact be no presumption that currency depreciation inthe 1930s was beggar-thy-neighbor policy. Rather, an empirical analysis of the historical record is needed to determine whether the impact on other countries was favorable or unfavorable. We conclude provisionally on the basis of this analysis that the foreign repercussions of individual devaluations were in fact negative -that the depreciations considered were beggar-thy-neighbor. As we point out, however, this finding does not support the conclusion that competitive devaluations taken by a group of countries were without benefit for the system as a whole. We argue to the contrary that similar policies, had they been even more widely adopted, would have hastened recovery from the Great Depression.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The paper reviews the controversial measures of "tax effort," updates previous studies, and compares current results to earlier findings. Some trends in taxation are described. A new, broader sample of countries is used to show the vulnerability of absolute tax indices to changes in the sample. However, rankings prove to be relatively stable. /// Dans cette \xc3\x83\xc2\xa9tude, les auteurs examinent la mani\xc3\x83\xc2\xa8re controvers\xc3\x83\xc2\xa9e de mesurer l\'"effort fiscal", mettent \xc3\x83 jour les \xc3\x83\xc2\xa9tudes ant\xc3\x83\xc2\xa9rieures et comparent les r\xc3\x83\xc2\xa9sultats actuels aux r\xc3\x83\xc2\xa9sultats ant\xc3\x83\xc2\xa9rieurs. Les auteurs y d\xc3\x83\xc2\xa9crivent certaines tendances de la fiscalit\xc3\x83\xc2\xa9. Ils se servent d\'un nouvel \xc3\x83\xc2\xa9chantillon comprenant un plus grand nombre de pays pour montrer \xc3\x83 quel point les indices fiscaux absolus sont sensibles aux variations de l\'\xc3\x83\xc2\xa9chantillon. Les classements \xc3\x83\xc2\xa9tablis s\'av\xc3\x83\xc2\xa8rent, toutefois, relativement stables. /// En este estudio se analizan las discutidas formas de medir el "esfuerzo fiscal", se ponen al d\xc3\x83\xc2\xada otros estudios anteriores y se comparan los resultados actuales con los anteriormente hallados. Se describen algunas tendencias de la tributaci\xc3\x83\xc2\xb3n. Se utiliza una muestra nueva y m\xc3\x83\xc2\xa1s amplia de pa\xc3\x83\xc2\xadses con el fin de comprobar la vulnerabilidad de los \xc3\x83\xc2\xadndices tributarios absolutos a las variaciones de la muestra. Con todo, el orden de los pa\xc3\x83\xc2\xadses en los grupos result\xc3\x83\xc2\xb3 ser bastante estable.']