 ['We argue that the vast bulk of movements in aggregate real economic activity during the Great Recession were due to financial frictions. We reach this conclusion by looking through the lens of an estimated New Keynesian model in which firms face moderate degrees of price rigidities, no nominal rigidities in wages, and a binding zero lower bound constraint on the nominal interest rate. Our model does a good job of accounting for the joint behavior of labor and goods markets, as well as inflation, during the Great Recession. According to the model the observed fall in total factor productivity and the rise in the cost of working capital played critical roles in accounting for the small drop in inflation that occurred during the Great Recession. (JEL E12, E23, E24, E31, E32, E52)'] ['Recent empirical work suggests that small price changes are relatively common. This evidence has been used to criticize classic menu-cost models. In this paper, we use scanner data from a national supermarket chain and micro data from the Consumer Price Index to reassess the importance of small price changes. We argue that the vast majority of these changes are due to measurement error. We conclude that the evidence on the prevalence of small price changes is much too weak to be used as a litmus test of nominal rigidity models.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper formulates and estimates a three-shock US business cycle model. The estimated model accounts for a substantial fraction of the cyclical variation in output and is consistent with the observed inertia in inflation. This is true even though firms in the model reoptimize prices on average once every 1.8 quarters. The key feature of our model underlying this result is that capital is firm-specific. If we adopt the standard assumption that capital is homogeneous and traded in economy-wide rental markets, we find that firms reoptimize their prices on average once every 9 quarters. We argue that the micro implications of the model strongly favor the firm-specific capital specification. (Copyright: Elsevier)'] [' We study the properties of the carry trade, a currency speculation strategy in which an investor borrows low-interest-rate currencies and lends high-interest-rate currencies. This strategy generates payoffs that are on average large and uncorrelated with traditional risk factors. We argue that these payoffs reflect a peso problem. The underlying peso event features high values of the stochastic discount factor rather than very large negative payoffs. The Author 2011. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Society for Financial Studies. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org, Oxford University Press.'] [' We assess the importance of nominal rigidities using a new weekly scanner dataset. We find that nominal rigidities take the form of inertia in reference prices and costs, defined as the most common prices and costs within a given quarter. Reference prices are particularly inertial and have an average duration of roughly one year, even though weekly prices change roughly once every two weeks. We document the relation between prices and costs and find sharp evidence of state dependence in prices. We use a simple model to argue that reference prices and costs are useful statistics for macroeconomic analysis. (JEL L11, L25, L81)'] ['We argue that the government-spending multiplier can be much larger than one when the zero lower bound on the nominal interest rate binds. The larger the fraction of government spending that occurs while the nominal interest rate is zero, the larger the value of the multiplier. After providing intuition for these results, we investigate the size of the multiplier in a dynamic, stochastic, general equilibrium model. In this model the multiplier effect is substantially larger than one when the zero bound binds. Our model is consistent with the behavior of key macro aggregates during the recent financial crisis.'] ['We examine the empirical properties of the payoffs to two popular currency speculation strategies: the carry trade and momentum. We review three possible explanations for the apparent profitability of these strategies. The first is that speculators are being compensated for bearing risk. The second is that these strategies are vulnerable to rare disasters or peso problems. The third is that there is price pressure in currency markets.'] ['High interest rate currencies tend to appreciate relative to low interest rate currencies. We argue that adverse selection problems between participants in foreign exchange markets can account for this "forward premium puzzle." The key feature of our model is that the adverse selection problem facing market makers is worse when an agent wants to trade against a public information signal. So, when based on public information, the currency is expected to appreciate, there is more adverse selection associated with a sell order than with a buy order. (JEL E43, F31, G15)'] [' Market participants routinely take advantage of the failure of uncovered interest rate parity to speculate in currency markets. Perhaps the most widely used currency speculation strategy is the carry trade. In this article we take the perspective of an individual currency trader and document the gains to diversifying the carry trade across different currencies. We show that these gains are large. Diversification boosts the typical Sharpe ratio by over 50%. (c) 2008 by the European Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The carry trade strategy involves selling forward currencies that are at a forward premium and buying forward currencies that are at a forward discount. We compare the payoffs to the carry trade applied to two different portfolios. The first portfolio consists exclusively of developed country currencies. The second portfolio includes the currencies of both developed countries and emerging markets. Our main empirical findings are as follows. First, including emerging market currencies in our portfolio substantially increases the Sharpe ratio associated with the carry trade. Second, bid-ask spreads are two to four times larger in emerging markets than in developed countries. Third and most dramatically, the payoffs to the carry trade for both portfolios are uncorrelated with returns to the U.S. stock market.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Large devaluations are generally associated with large declines in real exchange rates. We develop a model which embodies two complementary forces that account for the large declines in the real exchange rate that occur in the aftermath of large devaluations. The first force is sticky nontradable goods prices. The second force is the impact of real shocks that often accompany large devaluations. We argue that sticky nontradable goods prices generally play an important role in explaining post-devaluation movements in real exchange rates. However, real shocks can sometimes be primary drivers of real exchange rate movements.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Changes in the price of nontradable goods relative to tradable goods account for roughly 50 percent of the cyclical movements in real exchange rates<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' We show that the standard procedure for estimating long-run identified vector autoregressions uses a particular estimator of the zero-frequency spectral density matrix of the data. We develop alternatives to the standard procedure and evaluate the properties of these alternative procedures using Monte Carlo experiments in which data are generated from estimated real business cycle models. We focus on the properties of estimated impulse response functions. In our examples, the alternative procedures have better small sample properties than the standard procedure, with smaller bias, smaller mean square error, and better coverage rates for estimated confidence intervals. (JEL: E24, E32, O3) (c) 2006 by the European Economic Association.'] ['This paper addresses two questions: (i) how do governments actually pay for the fiscal costs associated with currency crises; and (ii) what are the implications of different fi\xc2\xadnancing methods for post-crisis rates of inflation and depreciation? We study these questions using a general equilibrium model in which a currency crisis is triggered by prospective government defi\xc2\xadcits. We then use our model in conjunction with fiscal data to interpret government fi\xc2\xadnancing in the wake of three recent currency crises: Korea (1997), Mexico (1994) and Turkey (2001).<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper argues that the primary force behind the large fall in real exchange rates that occurs after large devaluations is the slow adjustment in the price of nontradable goods and services. Our empirical analysis is based on data from four large devaluation episodes: Mexico (1994), Korea (1997), Brazil (1999), and Argentina (2001). We conduct a more detailed analysis of the Argentina case using disaggregated CPI data, data from our own survey of prices in Buenos Aires, and scanner data from supermarkets. We then construct an open economy general equilibrium model that can account for the slow adjustment in nontradable good prices after a large devaluation<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper investigates the nature of U.S. fiscal policy in the aftermath of 9/11. We argue that the recent declines in the government surplus and tax rates cannot be accounted for by either the state of the U.S. economy as of 9/11 or as the typical response of fiscal policy to a large exogenous rise in military expenditures. Our evidence suggests that, had tax rates responded in the way they "normally" do to a large fiscal shock, aggregate output would have been lower and the surplus would not have changed by much. Our results do not bear directly on the desirability of the decline in tax rates or the surplus after 9/11.'] ['This paper investigates the response of hours worked and real wages to fiscal policy shocks in the U.S. during the post World War II era. We identify these shocks with exogenous changes in military purchases and argue that they lead to a persistent increase in government purchases and tax rates on capital and labor income, and a persistent rise in aggregate hours worked as well as declines in real wages. The shocks are also associated with short lived rises in aggregate investment and small movements in private consumption. We describe and implement a methodology for assessing whether standard neoclassical models can account for the consequences of a fiscal policy shock. Simple versions of the neoclassical model can account for the qualitative effects of a fiscal shock. Once we allow for habit formation and investment adjustment costs, the model can also account reasonably well for the quantitative effects of a fiscal shock.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We investigate what happens to hours worked after a positive shock to technology, using the aggregate technology series computed in Basu, Fernald, and Kimball (1999). We conclude that hours worked rise after such a shock. (JEL: E24, E32, O3) Copyright (c) 2004 The European Economic Association.'] ['This article discusses the empirical performance of a widely used model of nominal rigidities: the Calvo model of sticky good prices. The authors argue that there is overwhelming evidence against this model. But this evidence is generated under three key assumptions: one, there is no lag between the time firms reoptimize their price plans and the time they implement those plans; two, there is no measurement error in inflation; and three, monetary policy is the same in the pre-1979 and post-1982 periods. The authors discuss the impact of relaxing each of these assumptions.'] ['This paper argues that a principal cause of the 1997 Asian currency crisis was large prospective deficits associated with implicit bailout guarantees to failing banking systems. The expectation that these future deficits would be at least partially financed by seigniorage revenues or an inflation tax on outstanding nominal debt led to a collapse of the fixed exchange rate regimes in Asia. We articulate this view using a simple model whose key feature is that a speculative attack is inevitable once the present value of future government deficits rises. We present empirical evidence in support of the key assumptions underlying our interpretation of the crisis.'] ['Currency crises that coincide with banking crises tend to share four elements. First, governments provide guarantees to domestic and foreign bank creditors. Second, banks do not hedge their exchange rate risk. Third, there is a lending boom before the crises. Finally, when the currency/banking collapse occurs, interest rates rise and there is a persistent decline in output. This paper proposes an explanation for these regularities. We show that government guarantees lower interest rates and generate an economic boom. They also lead to a more fragile banking system; banks choose not to hedge exchange rate risk. When the fixed exchange rate is abandoned in favor of a crawling peg, banks go bankrupt, the domestic interest rate rises, real wages fall, and output declines.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['We present a model embodying moderate amounts of nominal rigidities which accounts for the observed inertia in inflation and persistence in output. The key features of our model are those that prevent a sharp rise in marginal costs after an expansionary shock to monetary policy. Of these features, the most important are staggered wage contracts of average duration three quarters, and variable capital utilization.'] ['This article reviews and interprets the recent currency crises in Korea and Thailand. The authors argue that a prime causes of the crises were large, unfunded government guarantees to railing financial sectors.'] ['Lawrence J. Christiano and Martin Eichenbaum are both Professors of Economics at Northwestern University. They have collaborated for many years studying the impact of monetary and fiscal policies on business cycles and linking empirical results to rigorous dynamic models. Here, they write about their current research agenda.'] ['This paper investigates the consequences of an exogenous increase in U.S. government purchases. We find that in response to such a shock, employment, output, and nonresidential investment rise, while real wages, residential investment and consumption expenditures fall. The paper argues that a simple variant of the neoclassical growth model which distinguishes between non-residential investment is consistent with this evidence. (Copyright: Elsevier)'] ['This article studies the impact on aggregate economic activity of increases in defense purchases which are unrelated to other developments in the economy. The authors use empirical evidence to evaluate the predictions of several prominent models.'] ['We argue that discretionary monetary policy exposes the economy to welfare-decreasing instability. It does so by creating the potential for private expectations about the response of monetary policy to exogenous shocks to be self-fulfilling. Among the many equilibria that are possible, some have good welfare properties. But, others exhibit welfare decreasing volatility in output and employment. We refer to the latter type of equilibria as expectation traps. In effect, our paper presents a new argument for commitment in monetary policy because commitment eliminates these bad equilibria. We show that full commitment is not necessary to achieve the best outcome, and that more limited forms of commitment suffice.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We provide new evidence that models of the monetary transmission mechanism should be consistent with at least the following facts. After a contractionary monetary policy shock, the aggregate price level responds very little, aggregate output falls, interest rates initially rise, real wages decline by a modest amount, and profits fall. We compare the ability of sticky price and limited participation models with frictionless labor markets to account for these facts. The key failing of the sticky price model lies in its conterfactual implications for profits. The limited participation model can account for all the above facts, but only if one is willing to assume a high labor supply elasticity (2 percent) and a high markup (40 percent). The shortcomings of both models reflect the absence of labor market frictions, such as wage contracts of factor hoarding, which dampen movements in the marginal cost of production after a monetary policy shock. nerships or affiliated with banking organizations are less likely to provide debt financing than other SBICs.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper analyzes the role of variable capital-utilization rates in propagating shocks over the business cycle. The model on which the authors' analysis is based treats variable capital-utilization rates as a form of factor-hoarding. They argue that variable capital-utilization rates are a quantitatively important source of propagation to business-cycle shocks. With this additional source of propagation, the volatility of exogenous technology shocks needed to explain the observed variability in aggregate U.S. output is significantly reduced relative to standard real-business-cycle models. Copyright 1996 by American Economic Association."] ['This paper presents capital utilization corrected measures of technology shocks for aggregate and disaggregated (two digit Standard Industrial Classification code) industries. We correct for variations in capital utilization by employing industrial electrical use as a measure of capital services. In contrast, the standard measures of technology shocks used in the Real Business Cycle literature are based on economy wide data and assume that capital services are proportional to the stock of measured capital. To assess the impact of these differences, we contrast selected properties of the competing technology shock measures. We argue that the properties of technology shocks for the manufacturing sector are quite different than those used in the RBC literature. We also find that correcting for capital utilization has important implications for the properties of the Solow residual.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper assesses the small sample properties of generalized method of moments based Wald statistics by using a vector white noise process and an equilibrium business cycle model as the data generating mechanisms. In many cases, the small sample size of the Wald tests exceeds its asymptotic size, and increases sharply with the number of hypotheses being jointly tested. The authors argue that this is mostly due to difficulty in estimating the spectral density matrix of the residuals. Estimators of this matrix that impose restrictions implied by the model or the null hypothesis substantially improve the properties of the Wald statistics.'] [' This paper investigates the effects of shocks to U.S. monetary policy on exchange rates. We consider three measures of these shocks: orthogonalized shocks to the federal funds rate, orthogonalized shocks to the ratio of nonborrowed to total reserves and changes in the Romer and Romer index of monetary policy. In sharp contrast to the literature, we find substantial evidence of a link between monetary policy and exchange rates. Specifically, according to our results a contractionary shock to U.S. monetary policy leads to (1) persistent, significant appreciations in U.S. nominal and real exchange rates and (2) significant, persistent deviations from uncovered interest rate parity in favor of U.S. interest rates. Copyright 1995, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['The basic tension facing econometricians is that structural models are necessary for addressing monetary policy questions. But all models are, by their very nature, false. Econometric programs that focus on testing whether models are true will be ignored by practicing macroeconomists. The critical task facing econometricians is to develop diagnostic tools for assessing the usefulness of models for addressing particular questions. This article reviews two diagnostic strategies.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper presents a flexible-price, quantitative general equilibrium model with the property that a positive money supply shock drives the nominal interest rate down, and aggregate employment, output, and the real wage up. These implications are broadly consistent with postwar U.S. data. The two key features of the model that are responsible for its properties are (1) money shocks have a heterogeneous impact on agents and (2) ex post inflexibilities in production give rise to a very low short-run interest elasticity of money demand. In our model, the extent of the drop in the interest rate after a positive money supply shock depends on the degree to which production is ex post inflexible. Given sufficient ex post inflexibility, the model conforms well with the view, widely held within the U.S. Federal System, that the short-run interest rate elasticity for total reserves is very close to zero. Copyright 1995 by Ohio State University Press.'] ["This paper presents a quantitative general equilibrium model with multiple monetary aggregates. The framework incorporates a banking sector and distinguishes between M1, the monetary base, currency and various measures of reserves: total, excess and non borrowed. We use a variant of the model to analyze two sets of empirical facts. The first set of facts is that different monetary aggregates covary differently with short term nominal interest rates. Broad monetary aggregates like M1 and the monetary base covary positively with current and future values of short term interest rates. In contrast, the non borrowed reserves of banks covary negatively with current and future interest rates. Observations like this `sign switch' lie at the core of recent debates about the effects of monetary policy actions on short term interest rates. According to our model, the sign switch occurs because movements in non borrowed reserves are dominated by exogenous shocks to monetary policy, while movements in the base and M1 are dominated by endogenous responses to non-policy shocks. The second set of facts that we consider is that broad monetary aggregates covary positively with output. We quantify the Friedman and Schwartz hypothesis that this covariation reflects the effects of exogenous shocks to monetary policy, and the hypothesis that they reflect the endogenous response of monetary aggregates to shocks in the private economy.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [" This paper assesses the impact of a monetary policy shock on the U.S. economy. The authors' measures of contractionary monetary policy shocks are associated with a fall in various monetary aggregates and a rise in the federal funds rate, declines in different measures of real activity, and sharp declines in commodity prices and a delayed decline in the GDP price deflator. In addition, net funds raised by the business sector increases for roughly a year, after which it falls. Finally, the authors find that households do not adjust their financial assets and liabilities for several quarters after a monetary shock. Copyright 1996 by MIT Press.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' This paper investigates the sensitivity of Solow residual based measures of technology shocks to labor-hoarding behavior. Using a structural model of labor hoarding and the identifying restriction that innovations to technology shocks are orthogonal to innovations in government consumption, the authors estimate the fraction of the variability of the Solow residual that is due to technology shocks. Their results support the view that a significant proportion of movements in the Solow residual are artifa cts of labor-hoarding behavior. Specifically, the authors estimate that the variance of innovations to technology is roughly 50 percent less than that implied by standard real business cycle models. Copyright 1993 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Several recent papers provide strong empirical support for the view that an expansionary monetary policy disturbance generates a persistent decrease in interest rates and a persistent increase in output and employment. Existing quantitative general equilibrium models, which allow for capital accumulation, are inconsistent with this view. There does exist a recently developed class of general equilibrium models which can rationalize the contemporaneous response of interest rates, output, and employment to a money supply shock. However, a key shortcoming of these models is that they cannot rationalize persistent liquidity effects. This paper discusses the basic frictions and mechanisms underlying this new class of models and investigates one avenue for generating persistence. We argue that once a simplified version of the model in Christiano and Eichenbaum (1991) is modified to allow for extremely small costs of adjusting sectoral flow of funds, positive money shocks generate long-lasting, quantitatively significant liquidity effects, as well as persistent increases in aggregate economic activity.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper investigates the impact on aggregate variables of changes in government consumption in the context of a stochastic, neoclassical growth model. We show, theoretically, that the impact on output and employment of a persistent change in government consumption exceeds that of temporary change. We also show that, in principle, there can be an analog to the Keynesian multiplier in the neoclassical growth model. Finally, in an empirically plausible version of the model, we show that the interest rate impact of a persistent government consumption shock exceeds that of a temporary one. Our results provide counterexamples to existing claims in the literature.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Hours worked and the return to working are weakly correlated. Traditionally, the ability to account for this fact has been a litmus test for macroeconomic models. Existing real-business-cycle models fail this test dramatically. The authors modify prototypical real-business-cycle models by allowing government consumption shocks to influence labor-market dynamics. This modification can, in principle, bring the models into closer conformity with the data. Their empirical results indicate that it does. Copyright 1992 by American Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper assesses the empirical plausibility of the view that aggregate productivity shocks account for most of the variability in post World War II US output. We argue that the type of evidence forwarded by proponents of this proposition is too fragile to be believable. First, our confidence in the evidence is fundamentally affected once we abandon the fiction that we actually know the true values of the structural parameters of standard Real Business Cycle (RBC) models. What the data are telling us is that, while productivity shocks play some role in generating the business cycle, there is simply an enormous amount of uncertainty about just what percent of aggregate fluctuations they actually do account for. The answer could be 70% as Kydland and Prescott (1989) claim, but the data contain almost no evidence against either the view that the answer is really 5% or that the answer is really 200%. Second, we show that point estimates of the importance of technology shocks are extremely sensitive to small perturbations in the theory. Allowing for labor hoarding behavior in an otherwise standard RBC model reduces the ability of technology shocks to account for aggregate fluctuations by 50%. This finding provides some support for the view that many of the movements in the Solow residual which are labelled as productivity shocks may be an artifact of labor hoarding type phenomena.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Measured aggregate U.S. consumption does not behave like a martingale. The authors develop and test two variants of the permanent income model which reflect that. In both, agents make decisions in continuous time. In one variant, martingale behavior holds; serial persistence in measured consumption reflects only time aggregation. In the other, serial persistence also reflects technology shocks, and martingale behavior does not hold. Using both structural and atheoretical econometric models, the authors find little evidence against either variant: aggregate quarterly U.S. data do not convincingly distinguish between their continuous time models. Copyright 1991 by The Econometric Society.'] ["In conducting empirical investigations of the permanent income model of consumption and the consumption-based intertemporal asset pricing model, various authors have imposed restrictions on the nature of the substitutability of consumption across goods and over time. In this paper we suggest a method for testing some of these restrictions and present empirical results using this approach. Our empirical analyses focuses on three questions: (i) Can the services from durable and nondurable goods be treated as perfect substitutes? (ii) Are preferences completely separable between durable and nondurable goods? (iii) What is the nature of intertemporal substitutability of nondurable consumption? When consumers' preferences are assumed to be quadratic, there is very little evidence against the hypothesis that the services from durable goods and nondurable goods are perfect substitutes. These results call into question the practice of testing quadratic models of aggregate consumption using data on nondurables and services only. When we consider S branch specifications, we find more evidence against perfect substitutability between service flows, but less evidence against strict separability across durable and nondurable consumption goods. Among other things, these findings suggest that the empirical shortcomings of the intertemporal asset pricing model cannot be attributed to the neglect of durable goods.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["No, and maybe not. [additional text from author's introduction] To us, the possibility of providing a compelling case that real GMP is either trend or difference stationary seems extremely small, certainly on the basis of post-war data. This is because there is only one difference between these two types of processes and that difference is completely summarized by the answer to the question. How much should an innovation to real GMP affect the optimal forecast of real GMP into the infinite future? If the answer is zero, then real GMP is trend stationary. If the answer is not zero, then real GMP is difference stationary. The competing hypotheses have no other testable differences. Once we pose the question in this way, it seems clear that economists ought to be extremely skeptical of any argument that purports to support one view or the other. Simply put, it's hard to believe that a mere 40 years of data contain any evidence on the only experiment that is relevant.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['The production smoothing model of inventories has long been the basic paradigm within which empirical research on inventories has been conducted The basic hypothesis embedded In this model IS that inventories of finished goods serve primarily to smooth production levels in the face of fluctuating demand and convex cost functions. However once we allow for shocks to technology and the costs of producing output firms will also use inventories to shift production from periods in which production costs are relatively high to periods in which production costs are relatively low. In this sense inventories can serve to smooth production costs rather production levels. In this paper we examine the empirical plausibility of the production level and production cost smoothing models of inventories. Our basic strategy is to derive and contrast a set of unconditional moment restrictions Implied by these models in a way that minimizes the role of auxiliary assumptions regarding market structure and Industry demand. We find overwhelming evidence against the production level smoothing model and very little evidence against the production cost smoothing mode1 We conclude that the variance of production exceeds the variance of sales in most manufacturing industries because the production cost smoothing role of inventories is quantitatively more important than the production level smoothing role of inventories.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper investigates empirically a model of aggregate consumption and leisure decisions in which utility from goods and leisure is nontime-separable. The nonseparability of p refer-ences accommodates intertemporal substitution or complementarit y of leisure and thereby affects the comovements in aggregate compens ation and hours worked. These cross relations are examined empiricall y using postwar monthly U.S. data on quantities, real wages, and the real return on the one-month treasury bill. The estimated values of t he parameters governing preferences differ significantly from the val ues assumed in several studies of real business models. Several possi ble explanations of these discrepancies are discussed. Copyright 1988, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['This paper examines the quantitative importance of temporal aggregation bias in distorting parameter estimates and hypothesis tests. Our strategy is to consider two empirical examples in which temporal aggregation bias has the potential to account for results which are widely viewed as being anomalous from the perspective of particular economic models. Our first example investigates the possibility that temporal aggregation bias can lead to spurious Granger causality relationships. The quantitative importance of this possibility is examined in the context of Granger causal relations between the growth rates of money and various measures of aggregate output. Our second example investigates the possibility that temporal aggregation bias can account for the slow speeds of adjustment typically obtained with stock adjustment models. The quantitative importance of this possibility is examined in the context of a particular class of continuous and discrete time equilibriurn models of inventories and sales. The different models are compared on the basis of the behavioral implications of the estimated values of the structural parameters which we obtain and their overall statistical performance. The empirical results from both examples provide support for the view that temporal aggregation bias can be quantitatively important in the sense of Significantly distorting inference.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper suggests that adverse selection problems in competitive annuity markets can generate quantity-constrained equilibria in which some agents, whose length of lifetime is uncertain, find it advantageous to accumulate capital privately. This occurs despite the higher rates of return on annuities. The welfare properties of these allocations are analyzed. It is shown that the level of capital accumulation is excessive in a Paretian sense. Policies that eliminate this inefficiency are discussed. Copyright 1987 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']