 ['This paper formulates a model of utility for a continuous time framework that captures the decision-maker\xe2\x80\x99s concern with ambiguity about both the drift and volatility of the driving process. At a technical level, the analysis requires a significant departure from existing continuous time modeling because it cannot be done within a probability space framework. This is because ambiguity about volatility leads invariably to a set of nonequivalent priors, that is, to priors that disagree about which scenarios are possible.'] ['Though risk aversion and the elasticity of intertemporal substitution have been the subjects of careful scrutiny, the long-run risks literature as well as the broader literature using recursive utility to address asset pricing puzzles have ignored the full implications of their parameter specifications. Recursive utility implies that the temporal resolution of risk matters and a quantitative assessment thereof should be part of the calibration process. This paper gives a sense of the magnitudes of implied timing premia. Its objective is to inject temporal resolution of risk into the discussion of the quantitative properties of long-run risks and related models.'] ['The paper outlines an exchangeable non-Bayesian model of preference generalizing the Savage/de Finetti classic model of subjective expected utility preference with an exchangeable prior. The treatment is informal, and the emphasis is on motivation and potential applications rather than on axiomatic foundations and technical details. The objective is to provide a widely accessible introduction to research that is reported in detail elsewhere.'] [' We formulate a model of utility for a continuous-time framework that captures aversion to ambiguity about both volatility and drift. Corresponding extensions of some basic results in asset pricing theory are presented. First, we derive arbitrage-free pricing rules based on hedging arguments. Because ambiguous volatility implies market incompleteness, hedging arguments determine prices only up to intervals. In order to obtain sharper predictions, we apply the model of utility to a representative agent endowment economy and study equilibrium asset returns. A version of the consumption capital asset pricing model is derived, and the effects of ambiguous volatility are described. The Author 2013. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Society for Financial Studies. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com., Oxford University Press.'] ['In a setting with repeated experiments, where evidence about the experiments is symmetric, a decision-maker ranks bets (or acts) over their outcomes. We describe a stark modeling trade-off between symmetry of preference (indifference to permutations), dynamic consistency and ambiguity. Then, assuming that experiments are ordered in time, we outline an axiomatic model of preference that exhibits dynamic consistency and yet models learning under ambiguity.'] ["The Ellsberg paradox suggests that people's behavior is different in risky situations\xe2\x80\x94when they are given objective probabilities\xe2\x80\x94from their behavior in ambiguous situations\xe2\x80\x94when they are not told the odds (as is typical in financial markets). Such behavior is inconsistent with subjective expected utility (SEU) theory, the standard model of choice under uncertainty in financial economics. This article reviews models of ambiguity aversion. It shows that such models\xe2\x80\x94in particular, the multiple-priors model of Gilboa and Schmeidler\xe2\x80\x94have implications for portfolio choice and asset pricing that are very different from those of SEU and that help to explain otherwise puzzling features of the data."] ['The de Finetti Theorem is a cornerstone of the Bayesian approach. Bernardo (1996) writes that its "message is very clear: if a sequence of observations is judged to be exchangeable, then any subset of them must be regarded as a random sample from some model, and there exists a prior distribution on the parameter of such model, hence requiring a Bayesian approach." We argue that while exchangeability, interpreted as symmetry of evidence, is a weak assumption, when combined with subjective expected utility theory, it implies also complete confidence that experiments are identical. When evidence is sparse, and there is little evidence of symmetry, this implication of de Finetti\'s hypotheses is not intuitive. This motivates our adoption of multiple-priors utility as the benchmark model of preference. We provide two alternative generalizations of the de Finetti Theorem for this framework. A model of updating is also provided.'] ['A series of experiments suggest that, compared to the Bayesian benchmark, people may either underreact or overreact to new information. We consider a setting where agents repeatedly process new data. Our main result shows a basic distinction between the long-run beliefs of agents who underreact to information and agents who overreact to information. Like Bayesian learners, non-Bayesian updaters who underreact to observations eventually forecast accurately. Hence, underreaction may be a transient phenomenon. Non-Bayesian updaters who overreact to observations eventually forecast accurately with positive probability but may also, with positive probability, converge to incorrect forecasts. Hence, overreaction may have long-run consequences.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We study the demand for flexibility and what it reveals about subjective uncertainty. As in Kreps [D. Kreps, 1979. A representation theorem for \'preference for flexibility\'. Econometrica 47, 565-577], Nehring [K. Nehring, 1996. Preference for flexibility and freedom of choice in a Savage framework. UC Davis Working Paper; K. Nehring, 1999. Preference for flexibility in a Savage framework. Econometrica 67, 101-119] and Dekel et al. [E. Dekel, B. Lipman, A. Rustichini, 2001. Representing preferences with a unique subjective state space. Econometrica 69, 891-934], the latter is represented by a subjective state space consisting of possible future preferences over actions to be chosen ex post. One contribution is to provide axiomatic foundations for a range of alternative hypotheses about the nature of these ex post preferences. Secondly, we establish a sense in which the subjective state space is uniquely pinned down by the ex ante ranking of (random) menus. Finally, we demonstrate the tractability of our representation by showing that it can model the two comparative notions "2 desires more flexibility than 1" and "2 is more averse to flexibility-risk than is 1."'] [' When ambiguity-averse investors process news of uncertain quality, they act as if they take a worst-case assessment of quality. As a result, they react more strongly to bad news than to good news. They also dislike assets for which information quality is poor, especially when the underlying fundamentals are volatile. These effects induce ambiguity premia that depend on idiosyncratic risk in fundamentals as well as skewness in returns. Moreover, shocks to information quality can have persistent negative effects on prices even if fundamentals do not change. Copyright 2008 by The American Finance Association.'] ["This paper models an agent in a multi-period setting who does not update according to Bayes' Rule, and who is self-aware and anticipates her updating behavior when formulating plans. Choice-theoretic axiomatic foundations are provided to capture updating biases that reflect excessive weight given to either prior beliefs, or alternatively, to observed data. A counterpart of the exchangeable Bayesian learning model is also described."] [' Living with risk can lead to anticipatory feelings such as anxiety or hopefulness. Such feelings can affect the choice between lotteries that will be played out in the future\xe2\x80\x94choice may be motivated not only by the (static) risks involved but also by the desire to reduce anxiety or to promote savouring. This paper provides a model of preference in a three-period setting that is axiomatic and includes a role for anticipatory feelings. It is shown that the model of preference can accommodate intuitive patterns of demand for information such as information seeking when a favourable outcome is very likely and information aversion when it is more likely that the outcome will be unfavourable. Behavioural meaning is given to statements such as "individual 1 is anxious" and "2 is more anxious than 1". Finally, the model is differentiated sharply from the classic model due to Kreps and Porteus. Copyright 2008, Wiley-Blackwell.'] ['The paper considers an agent who must choose an action today under uncertainty about the consequence of any chosen action but without having in mind a complete list of all the contingencies that could influence outcomes. She conceives of some relevant (subjective) contingencies but she is aware that these contingencies are coarse---they leave out some details that may affect outcomes. Though she may not be able to describe these finer details, she is aware that they exist and this may affect her behavior.'] [" This paper considers learning when the distinction between risk and ambiguity matters. It first describes thought experiments, dynamic variants of those provided by Ellsberg, that highlight a sense in which the Bayesian learning model is extreme\xe2\x80\x94it models agents who are implausibly ambitious about what they can learn in complicated environments. The paper then provides a generalization of the Bayesian model that accommodates the intuitive choices in the thought experiments. In particular, the model allows decision-makers' confidence about the environment to change\xe2\x80\x94along with beliefs\xe2\x80\x94as they learn. A portfolio choice application compares the effect of changes in confidence under ambiguity vs. changes in estimation risk under Bayesian learning. The former is shown to induce a trend towards more stock market participation and investment even when the latter does not. Copyright 2007, Wiley-Blackwell."] ['This note provides a behavioral characterization of mutually absolutely continuous multiple priors.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["Individuals often lose confidence in their prospects as they approach the `moment of truth.' An axiomatic model of such individuals is provided. The model adapts and extends (by relaxing the Independence axiom) Gul and Pesendorfer's model of temptation and self-control to capture an individual who changes her beliefs so as to become more pessimistic as payoff time approaches. In a variation of the model, the individual becomes more optimistic at an ex post stage in order to feel better about her available options."] [" This paper models an agent in a three-period setting who does not update according to Bayes' Rule and who is self-aware and anticipates her updating behaviour when formulating plans. Gul and Pesendorfer's theory of temptation and self-control is a key building block. The main result is a representation theorem that generalizes (the dynamic version of) Anscombe-Aumann's theorem so that both the prior and the way in which it is updated are subjective. The model can accommodate updating biases analogous to those observed by psychologists. Copyright 2006, Wiley-Blackwell."] ['The inability of the Bayesian model to accomodate Ellsberg-type behavior is well known. This paper focuses on another limitation of the Bayesian model, specific to a dynamic setting, namely the inability to permit a distinction between experiments that are identical and those that are only indistinguishable. It is shown that such a distinction is afforded by recursive multiple-priors utility. Two related technical contributions are the proff of a strong LLN for recursive multiple-priors utility and the extension to sets of priors of the notion of regularity of a probability measure.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper describes a pure-exchange, continuous-time economy with two heterogeneous agents and complete markets. A novel feature of the economy is that agents perceive some security returns as ambiguous in the sense often attributed to frank Knight. The equilibrium is described completely in closed-form. In particular, closed-form solutions are obtained for the equilibrium processes describing individual consumption, the interest rate, the market price of uncertainty, security prices and trading strategies. After identifying agents as countries, the model is applied to address the consumption home-bias puzzles.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["This paper axiomatizes an intertemporal version of multiple-ptiors utility. A central axiom is dynamic consistency, which leads to a recursive structure for utility, to 'rectangular' sets of priors and to prior-by-prior Bayesian updating as the updating rule for such sets of priors. It is argued that dynamic consitency is intuitive in a wide range of situations and that the model is consistent with a rich set of possibilities for dynamic behavior under ambiguity.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' Models of utility in stochastic continuous-time settings typically assume that beliefs are represented by a probability measure, hence ruling out a priori any concern with ambiguity. This paper formulates a continuous-time intertemporal version of multiple-priors utility, where aversion to ambiguity is admissible. In a representative agent asset market setting, the model delivers restrictions on excess returns that admit interpretations reflecting a premium for risk and a separate premium for ambiguity. Copyright The Econometric Society 2002.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper suggests a behavioral definition of (subjective) ambiguity in an abstract setting where objects of choice are Savage-style acts. Then axioms are described that deliver probabilistic sophistication of preference on the set of unambiguous acts. In particular, both the domain and the values of the decision-maker's probability measure are derived from preference. It is argued that the noted result also provides a decision-theoretic foundation for the Knightian distinction between risk and ambiguity."] ['This paper integrates models of atemporal risk preference that relax the independence axiom into a recursive intertemporal asset-pricing framework. The resulting models are amenable to empirical analysis using market data and standard Euler equation methods. We are thereby able to provide the first non-laboratory-based evidence regarding the usefulness of several new theories of risk preference for addressing standard problems in dynamic economics. Using both stock and bond returns data, we find that a model incorporating risk preferences that exhibit firstorder risk aversion accounts for significantly more of the mean and autocorrelation properties of the data than models that exhibit only second-order risk aversion. Unlike the latter class of models which require parameter estimates that are outside of the admissible parameter space, e.g., negative rates of time preference, the model with first-order risk aversion generates point estimates that are economically meaningful. We also examine the relationship between first-order risk aversion and models that employ exogenous stochastic switching processes for consumption growth.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["Working in a complete-markets setting, a property of asset demands in identified that is inconsistent with the investor's preference being based on probabilities. In this way, a market counterpart of the Ellsberg Paradox is provided.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' A definition of uncertainty or ambiguity aversion is proposed. It is argued that the definition is well-suited to modelling within the Savage (as opposed to Anscombe and Aumann) domain of acts. The defined property of uncertainty aversion has intuitive empirical content, behaves well in specific models of preference (multiple-priors and Choquet expected utility) and is tractable. Tractability is established through use of a novel notion of differentiability for utility functions, called eventwise differentiability. Copyright 1999 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] ['In modelling competition among mechanism designers, it is necessary to specify the set of feasible mechanisms. These specifications are often borrowed from the optimal mechanism design literature and exclude mechanisms that are natural in a competitive environment; for example, mechanisms that depend on the mechanisms chosen by competitors. This paper constructs a set of mechanisms that is universal in that any specific model of the feasible set can be embedded in it. An equilibrium for a specific model is robust if and only if it is an equilibrium also for the universal set of mechanisms. A key to the construction is a language for describing mechanisms that is not tied to any preconceived notions of the nature of competition.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["Debreu proposed the notion of `least concave utility' as a way to disentangle risk attitudes from the certainty preferences embedded in a von-Neumann Morgenstern index. This paper studies preferences under uncertainty, as opposed to risk, and examines a corresponding decomposition of preference. The analysis is carried out within the Choquet expected utility model of preference and is centered on the notion of a least convex capacity."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper constructs a space of states of the world representing the exhaustive uncertainty facing each player in a strategic situation. The innovation is that preferences are restricted primarily by 'regularity' conditions and need not conform with subjective expected utility theory. The construction employs a hierarchy of preferences, rather than of beliefs as in the standard Bayesian model. Applications include the provision of foundations for a Harsanyi-style game of incomplete information and a rich framework for the axiomatization of solution concepts for complete information normal form games. Copyright 1996 by The Econometric Society."] [' This paper considers a representative agent model of asset prices based on a recursive utility specification. A constant elasticity of intertemporal substitution is assumed but the risk-preference component of utility is restricted only by qualitative, nonparametric regularity conditions. A principal contribution is to determine the exhaustive implications of this semiparametric recursive utility model for the one-step ahead joint probability distribution for consumption growth and asset returns. It is also shown, in contrast to the claims of previous studies, that the generalization from expected utility to recursive utility contributes substantially to the resolution of the equity premium puzzle. Copyright 1995 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' A new axiom for preference orderings over lotteries, called the projective independence axiom, is formulated. Given suitable continuity and monotonicity assumptions, the axiom implies that utility is either in the weighted utility class or is quadratic in probabilities. The betweeness axiom is used to distinguish between these two classes of functions.'] [" The R. E. Lucas (1978) general equilibrium model of asset prices is extended to admit beliefs that are represented by a (nonsingleton) set of probability measures. A primary motivation is evidence, such as the Ellsberg paradox, that people are averse to vague or imprecise probabilities. Intertemporal utility functions embodying such aversion are formulated and then, in the context of a Lucas-style economy, the existence and characterization of equilibria are addressed. A noteworthy feature is that (under specified conditions) equilibria are indeterminate. Therefore, 'animal spirits' may play a role and sizable price volatility may result. Copyright 1994 by The Econometric Society."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper proposes a utility function incorporating both habit formation and an endogenous rate of time preference in a manner consistent with the intuition of Irving Fisher regarding the influence of past consumption on impatience. It is shown that the ne w specification is tractable and generates new predictions in the cont ext of three model economies: (1) a closed economy with heterogeneous agents, (2) a small open economy with one traded good and one nontra ded good, and (3) a small open economy with a traded good and domestic money. Copyright 1993 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] [' Asset pricing theory is presented with representative-agent utility given by a stochastic differential formulation of recursive utility. Asset returns are characterized from general first-order conditions of the Hamilton-Bellman-Jacobi equation for optimal control. Homothetic representative-agent recursive utility functions are shown to imply that excess expected rates of return on securities are given by a linear combination of the continuous-time market-portfolio-based capital asset pricing model (CAPM) and the consumption-based CAPM. The Cox, Ingersoll, and Ross characterization of the term structure is examined with a recursive generalization, showing the response of the term structure to variations in risk aversion. Also, a new multicommodity factor-return model, as well as an extension of the "usual" discounted expected value formula for asset prices, is introduced. Article published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Financial Studies in its journal, The Review of Financial Studies.'] [' A stochastic differential formulation of recursive utility is given sufficient conditions for existence, uniqueness, time consistency, monotonicity, continuity, risk aversion, concavity, and other properties. In the setting of Brownian information, recursive and intertemporal expected utility functions are observationally distinguishable. However, one cannot distinguish between a number of non-expected-utility theories of one-shot choice under uncertainty after they are suitably integrated into an intertemporal framework. In a "smooth" Markov setting, the stochastic differential utility model produces a generalization of the Hamilton-Bellman-Jacobi characterization of optimality. A companion paper explores the implications for asset prices. Copyright 1992 by The Econometric Society.'] [" John Harsanyi has provided an intriguing argument that social welfare can be expressed as a weighted sum of individual utilities. His theorem has been criticized on the grounds that a central axiom, that social preference satisfies the independence axiom, has the morally unacceptable implication that the process of choice and considerations of ex ante fairness are of no importance. This paper presents a variation of Harsanyi's theorem in which the axioms are compatible with a concern for ex ante fairness. The implied mathematical form for social welfare is a strictly quasi-concave and quadratic function of individual utilities. Copyright 1992 by University of Chicago Press."] [' The independence axiom of expected utility theory has recently been weakened to the betweenness axiom. In this paper, an even weaker axiom, called mixture symmetry, is presented. The corresponding functional structure is such that utility is a betweenness functional on part of this domain and quadratic in probabilities elsewhere. The experimental evidence against betweenness provides one motivation for the more general theory presented here. Another advantage of the mixture symmetric class of utility functions is that it is sufficiently flexible to permit the disentangling of attitudes toward risk and toward randomization. Copyright 1991 by The Econometric Society.'] [' This paper investigates the testable restriction on the time-series behavior of consumption and asset returns implied by a representative agent model in which intertemporal preferences are represented by utility functions that generalize conventional, time-additive, expected utility. The model based on these preferences allows a clearer separation of observable behavior attributable to risk aversion and to intertemporal substitution. Further, it nests the predictions of both the consumption CAPM and the static CAPM, and it allows direct tests of the expected utility hypothesis. We find that the performance of the non-expected utility model and tests of the expected utility hypothesis are sensitive to the choice of both consumption measure and instrumental variables. Copyright 1991 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper is concerned with the phenomenon of preference for timing in the temporal resolution of uncertainty and its implications for the structure of utility functionals defined on multiperiod consumption programs. Several postulates concerning attitudes towards timing are stated using a new definition of timing premium for early resolution of uncertainty. The analysis provides an axiomatic basis for the specifications of expected utility and the more general weighted utility and implicit weighted utility functionals in temporal models. Copyright 1989 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] [" This paper develops a class of recursive, but not necessarily expected utility, preferences over intertemporal consumption lotteries. An important feature of these general preferences is that they permit risk attitudes to be disentangled from the degree of intertemporal substitutability. Moreover, in an infinite horizon, representative-agent context, these preference specifications lead to a model of asset returns in which appropriate versions of both the atemporal CAPM and the intertemporal consumption CAPM are nested as special cases. In the authors' general model, systematic risk of an asset is determined by covariance with both the return to the market portfolio and consumption growth. Copyright 1989 by The Econometric Society."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' A compound of many independent replicas of a gamble may be chosen by a risk averter even if the single gamble would be rejected given any initial wealth level. Samuelson has shown that such choices are impossible if the expected utility theory of preference is adopted. but they are consistent with more general theories of preference. Consequently, the intuition suggested by the law of large numbers can be supported. Copyright 1988 by Kluwer Academic Publishers'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' If preferences are strongly separable in the pointwise partition of goods, then demand functions implied by an intransitive preference ordering can also be generated by a transitive (and strongly separable) ordering. Thus, if strong separability is appropriate, intransitivity is not empirically detectable from demand behavior. Two applications are discussed-the "expected-regret" model of choice under uncertainty and the robustness of turnpike propositions of capital theory. Copyright 1987 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] [' This paper describes a continuous time model of an economy with finitely many infinitely-lived consumers and a finite number of capital goods. Two objectives are achieved. First, recursive (nonadditive) utility functionals are formulated and analyzed. Second, these preference functionals are applied to analyze the nature of efficient allocations in a dynamic economy. Two classes of global turnpike propositions are proven which provide the basis for a model of the long-run distribution of wealth. These propositions also provide new perspective regarding existing stability literature based on additive utilities. Copyright 1987 by The Econometric Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']