 ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["The capital asset pricing model (CAPM) of William Sharpe (1964) and John Lintner (1965) marks the birth of asset pricing theory (resulting in a Nobel Prize for Sharpe in 1990). Before their breakthrough, there were no asset pricing models built from first principles about the nature of tastes and investment opportunities and with clear testable predictions about risk and return. Four decades later, the CAPM is still widely used in applications, such as estimating the cost of equity capital for firms and evaluating the performance of managed portfolios. And it is the centerpiece, indeed often the only asset pricing model taught in MBA level investment courses. The attraction of the CAPM is its powerfully simple logic and intuitively pleasing predictions about how to measure risk and about the relation between expected return and risk. Unfortunately, perhaps because of its simplicity, the empirical record of the model is poor--poor enough to invalidate the way it is used in applications. The model's empirical problems may reflect true failings. (It is, after all, just a model.) But they may also be due to shortcomings of the empirical tests, most notably, poor proxies for the market portfolio of invested wealth, which plays a central role in the model's predictions. We argue, however, that if the market proxy problem invalidates tests of the model, it also invalidates most applications, which typically borrow the market proxies used in empirical tests. For perspective on the CAPM's predictions about risk and expected return, we begin with a brief summary of its logic. We then review the history of empirical work on the model and what it says about shortcomings of the CAPM that pose challenges to be explained by more complicated models."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Confirming predictions shared by the trade-off and pecking order models, more profitable firms and firms with fewer investments have higher dividend payouts. Confirming the pecking order model but contradicting the trade-off model, more profitable firms are less levered. Firms with more investments have less market leverage, which is consistent with the trade-off model and a complex pecking order model. Firms with more investments have lower long-term dividend payouts, but dividends do not vary to accommodate short-term variation in investment. As the pecking order model predicts, short-term variation in [oplus ]investment and earnings is mostly absorbed by debt. Copyright 2002, Oxford University Press.'] [' We estimate the equity premium using dividend and earnings growth rates to measure the expected rate of capital gain. Our estimates for 1951 to 2000, 2.55 percent and 4.32 percent, are much lower than the equity premium produced by the average stock return, 7.43 percent. Our evidence suggests that the high average return for 1951 to 2000 is due to a decline in discount rates that produces a large unexpected capital gain. Our main conclusion is that the average stock return of the last half-century is a lot higher than expected. Copyright The American Finance Association 2002.'] [" The proportion of U.S. firms paying dividends drops sharply during the 1980s and 1990s. Among NYSE, AMEX, and Nasdaq firms, the proportion of dividend payers falls from 66.5% in 1978 to only 20.8% in 1999. The decline is due in part to an avalanche of new listings that tilts the population of publicly traded firms toward small firms with low profitability and strong growth opportunities-the timeworn characteristics of firms that typically do not pay dividends. But this is not the whole story. The authors' more striking finding is that, no matter what their characteristics, firms in general have become less likely to pay dividends. 2001 Morgan Stanley.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' The value premium in U.S. stock returns is robust. The positive relation between average return and book-to-market equity is as strong for 1929 to 1963 as for the subsequent period studied in previous papers. A three-factor risk model explains the value premium better than the hypothesis that the book-to-market characteristic is compensated irrespective of risk loadings. Copyright The American Finance Association 2000.'] [' There is a strong presumption in economics that, in a competitive environment, profitability is mean reverting. We provide corroborating evidence. In a simple partial adjustment model, the estimated rate of mean reversion is about 38% per year. But a simple partial adjustment model with a uniform rate of mean reversion misses rich nonlinear patterns in he behavior of profitability. Specifically, we find that mean reversion is faster when profitability is below its mean and when it is further from its mean in either direction. We also show that the mean reversion in profitability produces predictable variation in earnings. Copyright 2000 by University of Chicago Press.'] [' We estimate the internal rates of return earned by nonfinancial firms on (i) the initial market values of their securities and (ii) the cost of their investments. The return on value is an estimate of the overall corporate cost of capital. The estimate of the real cost of capital for 1950-96 is 5.95 percent. The real return on cost is larger, 7.38 percent, so on average corporate investment seems to be profitable. A by-product of calculating these returns is information about the history of corporate earnings, investment, and financing decisions that is perhaps more interesting than the returns. Copyright The American Finance Association 1999.'] [' Value stocks have higher returns than growth stocks in markets around the world. For the period 1975 through 1995, the difference between the average returns on global portfolios of high and low book-to-market stocks is 7.68 percent per year, and value stocks outperform growth stocks in twelve of thirteen major markets. An international capital asset pricing model cannot explain the value premium, but a two-factor model that includes a risk factor for relative distress captures the value premium in international returns. Copyright The American Finance Association 1998.'] [" We use cross-sectional regressions to study how a firm's value is related to dividends and debt. With a good control for profitability, the regressions can measure how the taxation of dividends and debt affects firm value. Simple tax hypotheses say that value is negatively related to dividends and positively related to debt. We find the opposite. We infer that dividends and debt convey information about profitability (expected net cash flows) missed by a wide range of control variables. This information about profitability obscures any tax effects of financing decisions. Copyright The American Finance Association 1998."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Suppose asset pricing is governed by the CAPM or the ICAPM, and the expected one-period simple returns on the net cash flows of investment projects are constant through time. Then the net cash flows are priced by discounting their expected values with their expected one-period simple returns. But when net cash flows are priced by discounting their expected values with constant CAPM or ICAPM expected one-period simple returns, distributions of net cash flows more than one period ahead are likely to be skewed right. Expected payoffs are then larger than median pay-offs, and expected pay-offs are progressively more unusual outcomes for longer investment horizons. Copyright 1996 by University of Chicago Press.'] [' Kothari, Shanken, and Sloan (1995) claim that betas from annual returns produce a stronger positive relation between beta and average return than betas from monthly returns. They also contend that the relation between average return and book-to-market equity (BE/ME) is seriously exaggerated by survivor bias. We argue that survivor bias does not explain the relation between BE/ME and average return. We also show that annual and monthly betas produce the same inferences about the beta premium. Our main point on the beta premium is, however, more basic. It cannot save the Capital asset pricing model (CAPM), given the evidence that beta alone cannot explain expected return. Copyright 1996 by American Finance Association.'] [' Previous work shows that average returns on common stocks are related to firm characteristics like size, earnings/price, cash flow/price, book-to-market equity, past sales growth, long-term past return, and short-term past return. Because these patterns in average returns apparently are not explained by the capital asset pricing model, (CAPM), they are called anomalies. The authors find that, except for the continuation of short-term returns, the anomalies largely disappear in a three-factor model. Their results are consistent with rational intertemporal CAPM or arbitrage pricing theory asset pricing but the authors also consider irrational pricing and data problems as possible explanations. Copyright 1996 by American Finance Association.'] [' The authors study whether the behavior of stock prices, in relation to size and book-to-market equity (BE/ME), reflects the behavior of earnings. Consistent with rational pricing, high BE/ME signals persistent poor earnings and low BE/ME signals strong earnings. Moreover, stock prices forecast the reversion of earnings growth observed after firms are ranked on size and BE/ME. Finally, there are market, size, and BE/ME factors in earnings like those in returns. The market and size factors in earnings help explain those in returns but the authors find no link between BE/ME factors in earnings and returns. Copyright 1995 by American Finance Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Two easily measured variables, size and book-to-market equity, combine to capture the cross-sectional variation in average stock returns associated with market "beta", size, leverage, book-to-market equity, and earnings-price ratios. Moreover, when the tests allow for variation in "beta" that is unrelated to size, t he relation between market "beta" and average return is flat, even when "beta" is the only explanatory variable. Copyright 1992 by American Finance Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Time (hourly payoffs) and salary (the payoff does not vary with hours) account for the bulk of the payoffs on labor contracts. This article argues that the choice between time and salary centers on the presence (time) or absence (salary) of information about flows of effort or output per unit time. Without information about the flow of hourly effort or output, payoffs for time give the workers an incentive to supply hours without effort. Time can then become uninformative about output. In this situation, if the contract includes a fixed payoff, it is likely to be a salary rather than a payoff for time. Copyright 1991 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Measuring the total return variation explained by shocks to expected cash flows, time-varying expected returns, and shocks to expected returns is one way to judge the rationality of stock prices. Variables that proxy for expected returns and expected-return shocks capture 30 percent of the variance of annual NYSE value-weighted returns. Growth rates of production, used to proxy for shocks to expected cash flows, explain 43 percent of the return variance. Whether the combined explanatory power of the variables--about 58 percent of the variance of annual returns--is good or bad news about market efficiency is left for the reader to judge. Copyright 1990 by American Finance Association.'] [' Like bondholders, most agents contract for fixed payoffs. Thus, corporate capital structures, which are less than 50 percent debt, are less levered than overall contract structures, in which about 90 percent of total flows are fixed payoffs. The hypothesis analyzed here is that loans and bonds lower contract costs by delegating the monitoring and bonding of the default risks of fixed payoffs to credible specialists (financial intermediaries, bond-holder trustees, rating agencies, and auditors). Other agents can then focus on their specialties, that is, efficient supply of labor, materials, and other services, and the contract problems of these specialties. Copyright 1990 by the University of Chicago.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' A slowly mean-reverting component of stock prices tends to induce negative autocorrelation in returns. The autocorrelation is weak for the daily and weekly holding periods common in market efficiency tests but stronger for long-horizon returns. In tests for the 1926-85 period, large negative autocorrelations for return horizons beyond a year suggest that predictable price variation due to mean reversion accounts for large fractions of 3 to 5-year return variances. Predictable variation is estimated to be about 40 percent of 3 to 5-year return variances for portfolios of small firms. The percentage falls to around 25 percent for portfolios of large firms. Copyright 1988 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper studies production decisions by firms in a capital market where decision-making by consumer-investors and the structure of equilibrium expected returns on securities are according to a two-parameter (mean-dispersion) model. An attempt is made to distinguish clearly questions concerned with the conditions required for perfect competition among firms as issuers of securities from questions concerned with whether value maximizing production decisions by perfectly competitive firms are Pareto optimal. The two major findings are as follows. First, there are natural externalities in the production decisions of firms that could in principle prevent the capital market from being perfectly competitive. But it is argued that the available empirical evidence is consistent with the conditions required for perfect competition. Second, given a market that satisfies the conditions required for perfect competition, natural external economies in the production decisions of firms can prevent the allocations achieved by perfectly competitive, value maximizing firms from being Pareto optimal. That is, a competitive equilibrium need not be Pareto optimal'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']