 [' type="main"&gt; This paper examines the link between trade facilitation and export variety for a broad cross-section of countries. We measure trade facilitation using port efficiency. We also include the bilateral import tariff and OECD membership and regional trade agreements. We find that port efficiency contributes significantly to the extensive margin of exports, and that the bilateral import tariff negatively impacts the variety of exports. The positive effect is confirmed when examining trade between countries without common land borders, or between OECD member countries and non-OECD countries. Results are not as strong when we look at within-OECD trade, or focus on bilateral trade in the intensive margin.'] ["This paper examines why credit constraints for domestic and exporting firms arise in a setting where banks do not observe firms' productivities. To maintain incentive compatibility, banks lend below the amount that firms need for optimal production. The longer time needed for export shipments induces a tighter credit constraint on exporters than on purely domestic firms. In our application to Chinese firms, we find that the credit constraint is more stringent as a firm's export share grows, as the time to ship for exports is lengthened, and as there is greater dispersion of firms' productivities, reflecting more incomplete information. \xc3\x82\xc2\xa9 2014 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology"] ['The acceleration in US productivity growth since 1995 is often attributed to declining prices for information technology (IT ) goods, and therefore enhanced productivity growth in that sector. We investigate an alternative explanation for these IT price movements: gains in the US terms of trade and tariff reductions, especially for IT products, which led to greater gains than shown by official indexes. We do not, however, investigate the indexes used to deflate the domestic absorption components of GDP, and if upward biases are present in those indexes that could offset some of the effects of mismeasured export and import indexes. (JEL C43, E23, F13, F14, J24)'] ['The latest World Bank estimates of real GDP per capita for China are significantly lower than previous ones.\xef\xbf\xbd We review possible sources of this puzzle and conclude that it reflects a combination of factors, including substitution bias in consumption, reliance on urban prices which we estimate are higher than rural ones, and the use of an expenditure-weighted rather than an output-weighted measure of GDP.\xef\xbf\xbd Taking all these together, we estimate that real per-capita GDP in China was 50% higher relative to the U.S. in 2005 than the World Bank estimates.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Recent research has demonstrated the importance of institutional quality at the country level for both the volume of trade and the ability to trade in differentiated goods that rely on contract enforcement. This paper takes advantage of cross-provincial variation in institutional quality in China, and export data that distinguishes between foreign and domestic exporters and processing versus ordinary trade, to show that institutional quality is a significant factor in determining Chinese provincial export patterns. Institutions matter more for processing trade and more for foreign firms, just as we would expect from a greater reliance on contracts in these cases.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['When materials offshoring is measured by estimating imported intermediate inputs, a common assumption used is that an industry\xe2\x80\x99s imports of each input, relative to its total demand, is the same as the economy-wide imports relative to total demand: this is the so-called \xe2\x80\x9cimport comparability\xe2\x80\x9d or \xe2\x80\x9cproportionality\xe2\x80\x9d assumption. A report to the National Research Council identified this assumption as being a significant limitation of current data collection and analysis. In this note we move beyond this assumption to obtain a direct measure of imported materials by industry for the United States in 1997. At the 3-digit I\xe2\x80\x93O industry level, there is a correlation of 0.68 between the offshoring shares made with and without the proportionality assumption, and a higher correlation of 0.87 when the shares are value weighted. While most value-weighted industries have differences below 50 percentage points in the two estimates, there are a significant number of cases that differ by 10 percentage points or more.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Existing models of offshoring are not equipped to explain how global production sharing affects the volatility of economic activity. This paper develops a trade model that can account for why offshoring industries in low wage countries such as Mexico experience fluctuations in employment that are twice as large as in high wage countries such as the United States. We argue that a key to explaining this outcome is that the extensive margin of offshoring responds endogenously to shocks in demand and transmits those shocks across borders in an amplified manner. Empirical evidence supports the claim that the extensive margin of offshoring is an active margin of adjustment, and quantitative simulation experiments show that the degree of movement of this margin in the data is sufficient to explain relative employment volatility in Mexico and the U.S.'] ['We study a symmetric AIDS expenditure function that allows for variation in the range of goods. Solving for the reservation prices for goods not available, a convenient form for the expenditure function is obtained. This functional form should prove useful in monopolistic competition models were the range of products changes due to entry and exit.'] ['Three sources of gains from trade under monopolistic competition are (i) new import varieties available to consumers; (ii) enhanced efficiency as more productive firms begin exporting and less productive firms exit; (iii) reduced markups charged by firms due to import competition. The first source of gains can be measured as new goods in a CES utility function for consumers. We argue that the second source is formally analogous to the producer gain from new goods, with a constant-elasticity transformation curve for the economy. We suggest that the third source of gain can be measured using a translog expenditure function for consumers, which, in contrast to the CES case, allows for finite reservation prices for new goods and endogenous markups.'] [' This paper studies how a rise in the share of U.S. imports from China, or any country with a fixed exchange rate, can explain a disproportionate fall in exchange rate pass-through to U.S. import prices. A theoretical model provides an explanation working through changes in markups, showing that a particular "local bias" condition is necessary and that free entry amplifies the effect. The model produces a structural equation for pass-through regressions including the China share; panel regressions over 1993-2006 indicate that the rising share of trade from China or other exchange rate fixers can explain as much as one-half of the observed decline in pass-through for the United States. Copyright (c) 2009 The Ohio State University.'] [" Paul Krugman has become one of the most influential economists of our time. Here we offer a leading trade economist's appreciation of the academic work that won him his Nobel Prize and that is central to mainstream economics today."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper studies the second-moment properties of offshoring, the arrangement whereby firms carry out particular stages of production abroad. It documents a new empirical regularity: maquiladora industries in Mexico that are associated with US offshoring experience fluctuations in employment that are twice as volatile as the corresponding industries in the United States. This finding is not attributable simply to higher volatility in the overall Mexican economy, nor to the smaller size of Mexico's industries compared to US counterparts. (JEL F14, F23, L24, L25, L60, O14)"] [' We propose a new approach to the international comparison of real GDP, as measured from the output-side. The traditional Gary-Khamis system, which measures real GDP from the expenditure-side, is modified to include differences in the terms of trade between countries. It is shown that this system has a strictly positive solution under mild assumptions. On the basis of a sample of 151 countries in 1996, it is shown that differences between real GDP measured from the expenditure-side and output-side can be substantial, especially for small open economies. We also obtain cross-country measures of "real openness" and the terms of trade. Copyright by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper studies a model of buyer investment and its effect on the variety and vertical structure of international trade. A distinction is made between two types of buyer investment: "Flexible" and "specific", which differ in the ability of a buyer to match with a seller. The interaction of buyer investment with the entry and pricing incentives of suppliers are analyzed. It is shown that (i) there can be multiple equilibria in the variety of products traded, and (ii) less product variety is associated with more intrafirm trade. The possibility of multiple equilibria is consistent with the observation that some similar economies, such as Taiwan and South Korea, differ substantially in their export varieties to the U.S. A cross-country empirical analysis confirms the negative correlation between export variety and intrafirm trade.'] ['This paper provides evidence on the monopolistic competition model with heterogeneous firms and endogenous productivity. We show that this model has a well-defined GDP function where relative export variety enters positively, and estimate this function over 48 countries from 1980 to 2000. Average export variety to the United States increases by 3.3% per year, so it nearly doubles over these two decades. The total increase in export variety is associated with a 3.3% average productivity improvement for exporters over the two decades. Overall, the model can explain 31% of the within-country variation in productivity (or 52% for the OECD countries), but only a very small fraction of the between-country variation in productivity.'] [" This paper studies how industry export variety can be constructed and empirically relates trade liberalisation to the expansion of export variety. We document the expansion in export varieties from Mexico due to NAFTA. We also investigate the growth in export variety from China over 1990-2001, and compare those findings to Mexico. Among other findings, we show that the expansion of China's export variety due to the fall of US tariffs has caused an adverse market competition effect on the export variety from Mexico. Copyright 2007 The Authors Journal compilation Blackwell Publishing Ltd. 2007 ."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We develop a simple model of international outsourcing and apply it to processing trade in China. Export processing involves a foreign firm contracting with a Chinese factory manager to assemble intermediate inputs into a final product. Whether the same or different parties should have ownership of the processing factory and control over input purchases depends on parameters of the model, which we estimate. We find that multinational firms engaged in export processing in China tend to split factory ownership and input control with local managers: the most common outcome is to have foreign factory ownership but Chinese control over input purchases. Consistent with our model, this pattern is especially prevalent in the southern coastal provinces, where export markets are thickest and contracting costs are lowest. \xc2\xa9 2005 MIT Press'] ['Product variety plays an important role in the theoretical work on monopolistic competition and trade, and recent empirical work has begun to quantify this for aggregate and disaggregate import demands. The authors discuss the measurement of product variety in trade, using a broad cross-section of industrial and developing countries and disaggregating across sectors. The authors calculate the export variety of countries in their sales to the United States, and relate the export variety indexes to country productivities. They confirm that countries with greater product variety in exports also have higher productivity. This may be due to their development of and access to these products.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['In this paper, we estimate the benefits to countries that purchase goods from China by having access to intermediary services provided in Hong Kong. Traders in Hong Kong supply information on markets and producers in China, which provides welfare gains to foreign firms using these services. During the 1990s, Hong Kong intermediated about one-half of the goods that China exported to the rest of the world. Using constant elasticity demand curves, we find that the gains to intermediary services provided by Hong Kong are roughly equal to the value of these Hong Kong re-exports, and four to five times larger than the markups earned in Hong Kong. Using a linear approximation to the demand curves instead, we find that the gains are one-quarter as much as the value of re-exports, or slightly larger than the markups.'] [" In this paper, we examine Hong Kong's role in intermediating trade between China and the rest of the world. Hong Kong traders distribute a large fraction of China's exports. Net of customs, insurance, and freight charges, re-exports of Chinese goods are much more expensive when they leave Hong Kong than when they enter. Hong Kong markups on re-exports of Chinese goods are higher for differentiated products, products with higher variance in export prices, and products sent to China for further processing. These results are consistent with the view that traders resolve informational problems in exchange. Additional results suggest that traders price discriminate across destination markets and use transfer pricing to shift income from high-tax countries to Hong Kong. Copyright 2004 Blackwell Publishing, 350 Main Street, Malden, MA 02148, USA, and 9600 Garsington Road, Oxford OX4 2DQ, UK.."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We view the political process in China as trading off the social benefits of increased trade and foreign direct investment, against the losses incurred by state-owned enterprises due to such liberalization. A model drawing on Grossman and Helpman (1994, 1996) is used to derive an empirically estimable government objective function. The key structural parameters of this model are estimated using province-level data on foreign direct investment and trade flows in China, over the years 1984-1995. We find that the weight applied to consumer welfare is between one-fifth and one-twelfth of the weight applied to the output of state-owned enterprises. We find that governmental preferences have shifted over time, but even in recent periods the weight on consumer welfare is only one-half of the weight on state-owned enterprises. This suggests that China may find it politically difficult to follow through with liberalizing its trade and investment regimes, such as under its WTO accession proposal.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' The CES monopolistic competition model is an especially convenient way to derive the gravity equation, especially when we allow for transport costs and other trade barriers. In that case, we need to take account of the overall price indexes in each country. We review three methods to do so: using published data on price indexes; using the computational method of Anderson and van Wincoop (2001); or using country fixed effects to measure the price indexes. The latter two methods are compared on the dataset dealing with trade between and within Canada and the US. The fixed effects method produces consistent estimates of the average border effect across countries, and is simple to implement, so it might be considered to be the preferred estimation method. Copyright 2002 by Scottish Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We present a model of industrial organization that has multiple stable equilibria and argue that the high-concentration equilibrium describes Korea\'s economy and the low-concentration equilibrium describes Taiwan\'s economy. Past industrial policy of the state may have put Korea\'s economy in the high-concentration equilibrium, but discontinuation of the policy did not cause the industrial organization to change because this is an economically viable equilibrium.The high-concentration equilibrium produces a narrower range of final goods than the low-concentration equilibrium, which explains why the 1996 collapse in semiconductor prices caused the less diversified Korean economy to contract more than the more diversified Taiwanese economy. More importantly, this collapse in demand caused Korea\'s economy to move to a new equilibrium that has a smaller number of business groups, as evidenced by the collapse of the second-tier chaebol and their absorption into the first-tier chaebol. This wave of bankruptcies, combined with the financially precarious state of the merchant banks, created an investor panic that precipitated the crisis, which began with the 17 November 1997 devaluation of the won. This is why economic fundamentals could explain the chaebol bankruptcies before that date and not those after that date. The logic of our model suggests that public policy should focus on reducing the vertical linkages within business groups and not on reducing their horizontal linkages as the current "Big Deal" program of the government is doing. Copyright (c) 2002 Center for International Development at Harvard University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper offers an explanation for the persistence observed in real exchange rate movements. The model combines pricing to market behavior with sticky prices generated by staggered contracts. A translog preference structure is used to enhance both features. The paper finds that openness limits the degree of endogenous persistence. Nevertheless, the model under reasonable parameter values can replicate the serial correlation of real exchange rate data. Further, significant exchange rate volatility can be generated, and this is amplified by the presence of endogenous persistence.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The simple gravity equation explains a great deal about the data on bilateral trade flows and is consistent with several theoretical models of trade. We argue that alternative theories nevertheless predict subtle differences in key parameter values, depending on whether goods are homogeneous or differentiated and whether or not there are barriers to entry. Our empirical work for differentiated goods delivers results consistent with the theoretical predictions of the monopolistic-competition model, or a reciprocal-dumping model with free entry. Homogeneous goods are described by a model with national (Armington) product differentiation or by a reciprocal-dumping model with barriers to entry.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We develop a procedure to rank-order objects using censored panel data sets. We illustrate this by ranking countries and commodities using disaggregated American import data and find evidence that countries and commodities can be ranked. Countries habitually begin to export goods to the United States according to an ordering; goods are also exported in order. We estimate these orderings using a methodology, that takes account of the fact that most goods are not exported by most countries in our sample. Our orderings seem sensible, robust, and intuitive, and they are correlated with macroeconomic phenomena such as productivity and growth rates. \xc2\xa9 2000 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We estimate the relative influence of trade versus technology on wages in a "large-country" setting, where technological change affects product prices. Trade is measured by the foreign outsourcing of intermediate inputs, while technological change is measured by expenditures on high-technology capital such as computers. The estimation procedure we develop, which modifies the conventional "price regression," is able to distinguish whether product price changes are due to factor-biased versus sector-biased technology shifts. In our base specification we find that computers explain about 35 percent of the increase in the relative wage of nonproduction workers, while outsourcing explains 15 percent; both of these effects are higher in other specifications. \xc2\xa9 2000 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['This paper contributes to a theory of rational choice under uncertainty for decision-makers whose preferences are exhaustively described by partial orders representing "limited information." Specifically, we consider the limiting case of "Complete Ignorance" decision problems characterized by maximally incomplete preferences and important primarily as reduced forms of general decision problems under uncertainty.  "Rationality" is conceptualized in terms of a "Principle of Preference-Basedness," according to which rational choice should be isomorphic to asserted preference. The main result characterizes axiomatically a new choice-rule called "Simultaneous Expected Utility Maximization" which in particular satisfies a choice-functional independence and a context-dependent choice-consistency condition; it can be interpreted as the fair agreement in a bargaining game (Kalai-Smorodinsky solution) whose players correspond to the different possible states (respectively extermal priors in the general case).<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The last few decades have seen a spectacular integration of the global economy through trade. The rising integration of world markets has brought with it a disintegration of the production process, however, in which manufacturing or services activities done abroad are combined with those performed at home. The author compares several different measures of foreign outsourcing and argues that they have all increased since the 1970s. He also considers the implications of globalization for employment and wages of low-skilled workers and for trade and regulatory policy, such as labor standards.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In this paper we develop and test two hypotheses about purchasing power parity (PPP) derived from the pricing behavior of profit- maximizing, exporting firms. The first is that changes in the price of traded goods relative to domestic substitutes, due to partial pass- through of exchange rates, will affect the PPP relation. The second is that PPP should hold on forward rather than spot exchange rates, due to hedging by firms. Using quarterly data for the United States, Canada, France, Germany, Japan and the United Kingdom, we find considerable support for the first but not the second hypothesis.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['In this paper, we examine the increase in the relative wages of skilled workers in Mexico during the 1980s. We argue that rising wage inequality in Mexico is linked to capital inflows from abroad. The effect of these capital inflows, which correspond to an increase in outsourcing by multinationals from the United States and other Northern countries, is to shift production in Mexico towards relatively skill-intensive goods thereby increasing the relative demand for skilled labor. We study the impact of foreign direct investment (FDI) on the share of skilled labor in total wages in Mexico using state-level data on two-digit industries from the Industrial Census for the period 1975 to 1988. We measure the state- level growth in FDI using data on the regional activities of foreign- owned assembly plants. We find that growth in FDI is positively correlated with the relative demand for skilled labor. In the regions where FDI has been most concentrated, growth in FDI can account for over 50 percent of the increase in the skilled labor share of total wages that occurred during the late 1980s.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["This paper explores the relationship between exchange rate pass-through and market share for monopolistically competitive exporters. Under fairly general assumptions we show that pass-through should be high for exporters based in a country with a very large share of total destination market sales. For source countries with small and intermediate market shares, the theoretical relationship is potentially nonlinear and sensitive to assumptions about the nature of consumer demand and firm interactions. The model is estimated using a panel data set of automobile exports from France, Germany, Sweden, and the United States to a variety of destinations over the period 1970-88. The empirical relationship between pass-through and market share is significantly nonlinear: pass-through is lowest when the source country's market share is around 45 percent and it is highest when the source country's share approaches 100 percent.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['There is considerable debate over whether international trade has contributed to the declining economic fortunes of less skilled workers. One issue that has become lost in the current discussion is how firms respond to import competition and how these responses, in turn, are transmitted to the labor market. In previous work, we have argued that outsourcing, by which we mean the import of intermediate inputs by domestic firms, has contributed to an increase in the relative demand for skilled labor in the United States. If firms respond to import competition from low-wage countries by moving non- skill-intensive activities abroad, then trade will shift employment towards skilled workers within industries. In this paper, we extend our previous work by combining new import data from the revised NBER trade database with disaggregated data on input purchases from the Census of Manufactures. We construct industry-by-industry estimates of outsourcing for the period 1972-1990 and reexamine whether outsourcing has contributed to an increase in relative demand for skilled labor. Our main finding is that outsourcing can account for 31-51% of the increase in the relative demand for skilled labor that occurred in U.S. manufacturing industries during the 1980s, compared to our previous estimate of 15-33%.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['We consider trade between two countries of unequal size, where the creation of new intermediate inputs occurs in both. We assume that the knowledge gained from R&amp;D; in one country does not spillover to the other. Under autarky, the larger country would have a higher rate of product creation. When trade occurs in the final goods, we find that the smaller country has its rate of product creation stowed, even in the long run. In contrast, the larger country enjoys a temporary increase in its rate of R&amp;D.; We also examine the welfare consequences of trade in the final goods, which depend on whether the intermediate inputs are traded or not.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' The authors demonstrate how to estimate a model of oligopoly pricing when products are multidimensionally differentiated. They provide an empirical counterpart to recent theoretical work on product differentiation. Using specifications informed by economic theory, the authors estimate price-cost margins for products differentiated in many dimensions. Copyright 1995 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] [' Using the marginal value of characteristics, the author shows how to construct bounds on the exact hedonic price index. When prices are above marginal costs, then his bounds still apply but the value of characteristics cannot be measured so easily from a hedonic regression. Since the price-cost markups are an omitted variable, they will bias the coefficients obtained. For a special class of utility functions, the author argues that a linear regression will still provide a measure of the marginal value of characteristics but a log-linear regression will overstate these values. Copyright 1995 by MIT Press.'] [" The paper presents both a theoretical and an empirical argument that the concept of hierarchy needs to be reconceptualized. In our theoretical discussion we develop a synthesis between Coase's and Williamson's conception of a market/hierarchy dichotomy and Weber's distinction between economic power and authority. We hold that the authoritative aspects of hierarchies, especially within networks of firms, have independent effects on the formation of market economies. We empirically demonstrate the relevance of this reconceptualization in an analysis of the economies of South Korea and Taiwan. With these cases, we show that two different types of authoritative interfirm networks, one vertically and the other horizontally arranged, substantially shape the performance of these economies. Copyright 1995 by Oxford University Press."] ['In a model where all factors of production are imperfectly mobile, we argue that the Dixit-Norman scheme of commodity taxes may not lead to strict Pareto gains from trade. Rather, this scheme must be augmented by policies which give factors an incentive to move: hence, the role for trade adjustment assistance (TAA). We demonstrate that by knowledge of the distribution of adjustment costs across individuals, the government can offer a single TAA subsidy to all individuals willing to move between industries, and maintain a non-negative budget. The TAA subsidy, combined with the Dixit-Norman pattern of commodity taxes, can lead to Pareto gains from trade under the conditions we identify.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper examines the aggregate production function in an economy characterized by the creation of new, intermediate inputs. The authors show how growth can be decomposed into changes in higher quantities of existing inputs and a greater range of inputs. Indexes of total factor productivity would reflect the latter. The authors construct a dynamic monopolistic-competition model in which products are endogenously introduced and simulate that model to produce artificial data. When used in standard growth-accounting regressions, the data can appear to be generated by an economy with exogenous technical change and (approximately) constant returns to primary factors. Copyright 1994 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] [' The high income elasticity of demand often estimated for U.S. imports may be a spurious result of omitting new product varieties from the import price indexes. The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate how to incorporate new product varieties into a constant-elasticity-of-substitution aggregate of import prices. This method is applied to U.S. imports of six disaggregate manufactured goods. It is shown that the corrected indexes are able to account for part--but not all--of the high income elasticities. Copyright 1994 by American Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['How costly is protectionism? This paper begins from a U.S. perspective, examining the costs to both the U.S. and other countries from U.S. protectionism. It emphasizes that substantial costs are imposed on foreign countries by U.S. protectionism. These costs result from the highly selective nature of protection in particular industries and against particular exporting countries. No discussion of the costs of protection would be complete without mentioning the increasing levels of investment by foreign firms within the U.S. economy. The paper next moves to a more global policy perspective. The emerging free trade areas in Europe, North America, and Asia raise the prospect of gains from trade within each region but also the possibility of global costs from protectionist actions across the regions.'] [" We argue that the incomplete information which the government has about domestic agents means that tariffs become an optimal instrument to protect them from import competition. Using a model where agents have private information about their endowments, we solve for the optimal government policy subject to the political constraint of ensuring Pareto gains from trade, the incentive compatibility constraint, and the government's budget constraint. We find that the optimal policy takes the form of nonlinear tariffs. These tariffs are never complete, in the sense of bringing prices back to their initial level, but always allow some individuals to be strictly better off than at the initial prices. Copyright 1991 Blackwell Publishers Ltd.."] [' The authors consider a home government with political pressure to restrict trade. The foreign country is compensated with a portion of the tariff revenues or quota rents, but cannot directly observe the political pressure abroad. In this setting, the two countries negotiate over the volume of trade and transfer of rents, depending on the level of political pressure. The authors determine globally optimal, incentive-compatible trade policies in which the home government has no incentive to overstate (or understate) the pressure for protection. Copyright 1991, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' In this paper we consider recent proposals to auction U.S. import quotas, using the funds so obtained to encourage relocation out of the protected industries. We first discuss the design of quota auctions so as to maximize revenue for the government. We then consider why quota auctions should be used at all, rather than simply using tariffs, or immediately opening trade and compensating people with income transfers. We argue that the information available to the government, or lack thereof, is a critical factor in understanding these policies. Copyright 1990 Blackwell Publishers Ltd..'] ['This paper examines the effect of tariffs and exchange rates on U.S. prices of Japanese cars, trucks and motorcycles. In particular, we test whether the long run pass-through of tariffs and exchange rates are identical: the symmetry hypothesis. We find that this hypothesis is easily accepted in our sample. We also find that the pass-through relation varies across products, ranging from about 0.6 for trucks to unity for motorcycles. These coefficients have very different implications for trade policy. We explain the results based on demand, cost and institutional conditions in each industry. We also find weak evidence that the pass-through of exchange rates has fallen in more recent years.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' In this paper, the author investigates the quality change in Japanese car and truck imports over 1979-85. Car im ports have been subject to a quota restraint since April 1981, while compact trucks have faced an ad valorem tariff of 25 percent since Au gust 1980. He finds evidence of substantial upgrading in Japanese car imports, with ambiguous quality change in trucks. The welfare cost o f the quota restraint in cars exceeds $1,000 per import in 1983 and 1 984. Copyright 1988, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [' A two-country trade model with production uncertainty is considered. If complete contingent markets do not exist, it is desirable for governments to adopt some trade policies to share the production risk. A full-information policy involves incomes transfers across co untries, which can be achieved by equal import tariffs and export sub sidies. With incomplete information, the author considers incentive c ompatible trade policies, which are designed to be truth revealing wh ile partially sharing the production risk. In this case, the tariff i n one country may differ from the export subsidy abroad. Copyright 1987 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']