 [' type="main" xml:id="ecop12033-abs-0001"&gt;  This study analyses the link between student test scores and the school students attend, the policies and practices of the schools, students\' family background and their parents\' involvement in their education using data from the 2009 wave of the Program for International Student Assessment. We find that (1) a substantial proportion of the variation of test scores within countries is associated with the school students attend; (2) a sizeable proportion of the school fixed effects is associated with school policies and teaching practices beyond national policies or other mechanisms that sort students of differing abilities among schools; (3) school fixed effects are a major pathway for the link between family background and test scores. The implication is that what schools do is important in the level and dispersion of test scores, suggesting the value of further analysis of what goes on in schools to pin down causal links between policies and practices and test score outcomes. \xe2\x80\x94 Richard B. Freeman and Martina Viarengo'] ['This introduction is to introduce the major themes in this special issue and to focus attention on the robustness and utility of approaches that cross-cut the research discussed here and research available elsewhere. We identify major themes that have emerged in the nano-relevant discussion and literature and situate this special issue in that context. We also attempt to draw out the benefits derived from combining interdisciplinary research in our special issue, rather than strewn across discipline-focused journals seldom read together by the same person. Economic and social explanations may provide alternative explanations that produce similar end results. The main mechanisms of interest are probably expected economic returns and lowering diffusion costs via social network ties. That is, there may be synergistic mechanisms for causing adoption of innovation that together produce more widespread change; while the change is differently motivated, the end result may be to benefit more of those at risk for adoption. We then discuss each of the major themes of this special issue in turn and evaluate the contributions made in light of other work on nanotechnology and on emerging technologies in general.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper explores the link between employee perceptions of working conditions and the desire for worker representation in Britain and the US. We find that the distribution of employee perceptions of poor working conditions is similar in Britain and the US; similar factors affect the number of perceived poor working conditions; and the perception of poor working conditions is strongly associated with the desire for union representation. The nature of workplaces, as opposed to employees\xe2\x80\x99 characteristics, is the predominant factor determining employee perceptions of poor working conditions. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2013'] ["This study uses a 10-year longitudinal database on U.S. manufacturing establishments to analyze the dynamics of the adoption and termination of employee involvement programs (EI). We show that firms' use of EI has not grown continuously, but rather introduce and terminate EI policies in ways that imply that the policies are complementary with each other and with other advanced human resource practices, seemingly moving toward an equilibrium distribution of EI policies. Using a Markov model, we estimate the long-run distribution of the number of EI programs in firms and find that adjustment to the steady-state distribution takes about 20 years.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['Using the employee opinion survey responses from several thousand employees working in 193 branches of a major U.S. bank, we consider whether there is a distinctive workplace component to employee attitudes despite the common set of corporate human resource management practices that cover all the branches. Several different empirical tests consistently point to the existence of a systematic branch-specific component to employee attitudes. "Branch effects" can also explain why a significant positive cross-sectional correlation between branch-level employee attitudes and branch sales performance is not observed in longitudinal fixed-effects sales models. The results of our empirical tests concerning the determinants of employee attitudes and the determinants of branch sales are consistent with an interpretation that workplace-specific factors lead to better outcomes for both employees and the bank, and that these factors are more likely to be some aspect of the branches\' internal operations rather than some characteristic of the external market of the branch.'] ['This paper examines the relation between measures of the within-country inequality of student scores on international academic tests and the average level of scores across countries, using the PISA mathematics tests over 2000-2009. It finds that average test scores are higher in countries with lower inequality in scores \xe2\x80\x93 a virtuous efficiency-equity relation in test performance \xe2\x80\x93 and that family background factors are differently associated with student test performance across countries, but display little impact on the country-wide dispersion of test scores.'] ['Translated from English'] ["Technology effects, business process development, and productivity growth are considered in the context of a single company: Wal-Mart. The starting point is the 2001 McKinsey Global Institute report, which finds that over 1995-2000, a quarter of U.S. productivity growth is attributable to the retail industry, and almost a sixth of that is attributable to Wal-Mart. Wal-Mart is interesting as well because of its rapid growth in Canada. This is now Canada's largest private sector employer. We also consider other evidence relevant to public policy formation concerning Wal-Mart and conclude with a discussion of options for partially filling important data gaps."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper documents the five main ways in which globalization of scientific and engineering has proceeded: (1) expansion of mass higher education worldwide; (2) growth in number of international students; (3) immigration of scientists and engineers; (4) non-immigration trips: academic visitors, conferences; (5) greater international co-authorship and co-patenting. It is argued that by accelerating the rate of technological change and speeding the adoption of best practices around the world, these developments should benefit advanced and developing countries but that they threaten the comparative advantage of advanced countries in high-tech sectors and the edge that their citizens have in access to the highest quality university education and jobs; and risk creating greater divisions between modern and traditional sectors in developing countries. How economies around the world take advantage of the benefits and minimize the costs of globalization of knowledge will be a major determinant of economic progress.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper examines behavior in a tournament in which we vary the tournament prize structure and the available information about participants' skill at the task of solving mazes. The number of solved mazes is lowest when payments are independent of performance; higher when a single, large prize is given; and highest when multiple, differentiated prizes are given. This result is strongest when we inform participants about the number of mazes they and others solved in a pre-tournament round. Some participants reported that they solved more mazes than they actually solved, and this misreporting also peaked with multiple differentiated prizes. (JEL D82)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Many business, academic, and scientific groups have recommended that the Congress substantially increase R&amp;D; spending in the near future. President Bush\xe2\x80\x99s American Competitiveness Initiative calls for a doubling of spending over the next decade in selected agencies that deal with the physical sciences, including the National Science Foundation. We consider the rationale for government R&amp;D; spending in the context of globalization and as an investment in human capital and knowledge creation with gestation times far longer than federal funding cycles. To assess the impact of a large increase in R&amp;D; spending on the science job market, we examine the impact of the 1998\xe2\x80\x932003 doubling of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) budget on the biomedical sciences. We find that the rapid increase in NIH spending and ensuing deceleration created substantial adjustment problems in the market for research and failed to address long&amp;hyphen;standing problems with scientific careers that are likely to deter many young people from choosing a scientific career. We argue that because research simultaneously produces knowledge and adds to the human capital of researchers, which has greater value for young scientists because of their longer future career life span than for older scientists, there is a human capital\xe2\x80\x93based reason for giving awards to younger researchers relative to equally competent older researchers.'] ['This paper examines cross-country differences in labour policies and practices and employee performance and attitudes toward work from a sample of nearly 30,000 employees in a large multinational manufacturing firm. The analysis shows: 1) large establishment and country differences in work practices, performance, and attitudes toward work across countries; 2) qualitatively similar responses of workers to work practices across countries; 3) a strong link between the establishment average of employee reports on the quality of labour-management relations and establishment average measures of employee performance 4) a positive relation between average employee performance and average employee-management relations at the country level, but no relation between country level performance in the firm and measures of the extent of national labour regulations or practices.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper summarizes new evidence from the National Bureau of Economic Research \xe2\x80\x9cShared Capitalism\xe2\x80\x9d Project on the extent to which workers\xe2\x80\x99 earnings depend on the performance of their firm or work group in the US and advanced Europe and on the impact of sharing arrangements on economic behavior. The evidence shows that: 1) a large and growing proportion of workers are covered by shared capitalism through worker profit-sharing, bonuses, or worker ownership of shares; 2) outcomes for workers and firms are higher under shared capitalism than under other work and pay arrangements; and 3) that worker co-monitoring helps overcome the free rider problem that arises when part of pay depends on the productivity and effort of all workers.'] ["The policy debate over globalization in the past decade has largely bypassed the international mobility of labor. Restrict trade and cries of protectionism resound. Suggest linking labor standards to trade and it's protectionism in disguise. Limit capital flows and the International Monetary Fund is on your back. But restrict people flows? That's just an accepted exercise of national sovereignty! During the last few decades, when most countries reduced barriers to trade in goods and services and liberalized financial capital markets, most also sought to limit immigration. In this essay, I examine what we know about the causes and consequences of immigration. I argue that people flows are fundamental to creating a global economy and that the interplay among immigration, capital and trade is essential to understanding the way globalization affects economies. I consider ways to reduce barriers to immigration that could improve the well-being of workers around the world."] [" This paper argues that detailed studies of particular economies, such as Bob Gregory's work on Australia, are relevant to all of economics. The paper builds on the concept of a model species from biology to develop the notion of a model economy - one whose experiences illuminate fundamental economic issues; examines the criterion for an economy to serve as a model economy; and describes three areas - labour relations and the awards system of wage-setting, marketising public services and growth through immigration and natural resources - where Australian experience provides insights into economic behaviour and the operation of markets broadly. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2006 The Economic Society of Australia."] ['Freeman talked about the development of ideas and their impact on U.S. workers. It used to be the case that the place where new knowledge was created had an advantage in commercializing it. But Freeman argues that modern communications technologies allow new ideas rapid exposure on a world stage, where the ever-growing numbers of technically skilled workers in developing countries stand capable of turning them into profit-making opportunities. Freeman emphasizes the need for policies that foster knowledge creation in areas where the home-field advantage can be maintained. He says that the U.S. ought to encourage research and development in areas that have more \xe2\x80\x9cstickiness\xe2\x80\x9d\xe2\x80\x94that is, invest more in those areas of science where there is some natural advantage for the commercialization to occur in the U.S. He also advises that we create more \xe2\x80\x9cstickiness\xe2\x80\x9d in basic knowledge creation, for example, by enacting stronger patent protection, to increase the likelihood that U.S. firms are the ones commercializing innovative science.'] ['There are two competing narratives about the how the labor market in the US will develop over the next decade or two: the Impending Shortage narrative and the Globalization Surplus narrative.'] [" The debate over the influence of labour market flexibility on performance is unlikely to be settled by additional studies using aggregate data and making cross-country comparisons. While this approach holds little promise, micro-analysis of workers and firms and increased use of experimental methods represent a path forward. Steps along this path could help end the current 'lawyer's case' empiricism in which priors dominate evidence."] [' type="main" xml:lang="en"&gt;     Employment rates and hours worked per employee are very different in the EU and the US. This paper relates the greater time worked in the US to greater marketization in the US of traditional household production: food preparation, childcare, elderly care, cleaning houses. Since women do most household work, marketization is particularly relevant to the EU\xe2\x80\x93US difference in hours worked by women. We suggest that to raise employment rates the EU should develop policies that make it easier for women to move from the household to the market and to substitute market goods and services for household production.  \xe2\x80\x94 Richard B. Freeman and Ronald Schettkat  '] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Authors Freeman and Rodgers find that the current recovery, which started in 2001, has been the worst in recent history in terms of job creation. They determine that the slow employment growth of the recovery is not attributable to the poor performance of a particular sector, nor is it concentrated in certain geographic areas. ; The authors conclude that the weak jobs recovery represents a major shift in the link between the labor market and the economy over the business cycle. They also find that the slow job growth has disproportionate effects on groups especially sensitive to business cycle swings, such as African-Americans, new labor-market entrants, out-of-school youth and less educated workers.'] ['The Journal of Labor Research 20th anniversary symposium review of What Do Unions Do? offers a unique opportunity to examine how the claims made in the book have fared in ensuing research and to ponder what parts of the book I would change if I could. This paper responds to the 18 critical essays in the journal. It recognizes three major errors of omission: failure to take account of unionism outside the US; failure to analyze public sector unionism; and failure to analyze the effects of unionism on economic growth; and the problem of determining the "optimal level of unionism" on the basis of estimates of what unions do. Ensuing research has found that What Do Unions Do? correctly identified union effects on turnover, fringe benefits, earnings inequality, political action, profits, managerial flexibility and human resource management, and that wage effects vary widely. Estimates of the union effect on productivity tend to be positive but modest, ruling out negative effects on average, but not conclusively establishing positive effects. Critical comments from some of the symposium panelists notwithstanding, I believe that the bulk of the evidence supports the What Do Unions Do? claim that management opposition has been a major factor in the decline in union density in the US.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" The rules governing trade and capital flows have been at the centre of controversy as globalisation has proceeded. One reason is the belief that trade and capital flows have massive effects on the labour market - either positive, per the claims of international financial institutions and free trade enthusiasts, or negative, per the ubiquitous protestors at WTO, IMF and World Bank meetings demanding global labour standards. Comparing the claims made in this debate with the outcomes of trade agreements, this paper finds that the debate has exaggerated the effects of trade on economies and the labour market. Changes in trade policy have had modest impacts on the labour market. Other aspects of globalisation - immigration, capital flows and technology transfer - have greater impacts, with volatile capital flows creating great risk for the well-being of workers. As for labour standards, global standards do not threaten the comparative advantage of developing countries nor do poor labour standards create a 'race to the bottom'. Copyright Blackwell Publishing Ltd 2004."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper presents evidence that legal protection of property rights is indeed an important contributor to economic success but that institutional and legal protection of the rights of labor is also associated with economic success, particularly in developing countries. Cross-country analyses show that measures of labor protections have the same relation to economic efficiency, measured by GDP per capita, as measures of protection of property, and that both protection of property rights and protection of labor rights reduce economic inequality. The results suggest that as legal protection of property gives investors the right message about economic activity: invest in productive undertakings and you will gain the fruits of your investments; legal protection of labor gives workers the right message about economic activity: work and you will gain the fruits of your labor.'] [' The extension of information and communication technologies (ICT) to economic activity is changing the labour market in important ways, This article shows that computerization and use of the Internet are associated with greater hours worked as well as higher wages; that ICT occupations are rapidly increasing their share of employment; that job search and recruitment are moving rapidly to the Web, with consequences for matching employers and employees; and, possibly most important of all, that trade unions have begun to use the Internet as a tool for servicing members and carrying their messages to the public, raising the possibility of a major change in the nature of the union movement. Copyright 2002, Oxford University Press.'] ['The UK economy has undergone significant market reforms over the last two decades. A key question for productivity researchers is the impact of these reforms on productivity growth. In this article, Richard B. Freeman of the London School of Economics, Harvard University and the NBER and David Card of the University of California at Berkeley and the NBER examine trends in productivity growth in Britain and other major developed countries and estimate the impact of British economic reforms on British performance. Freeman and Card find that developments in the UK economy cannot be readily explained by standard macro-economic changes in labour or capital. They note that economic reforms were more important in the UK than in other countries and that the UK after 1979 arrested the nearly century-long trend in economic decline of the UK relative to its historic competitors, France and Germany. They conclude that reforms in the area of union-management relations, privatization, profit and share ownership, and self-employment increased UK productivity growth 0.35 per cent per year over the 1979-1999 period, accounting for one quarter of the pick-up in productivity between the 1960-79 and 1979-1999 periods.'] [' The low cost of information, communication, and interaction on the web offers trade unions opportunities to improve services and attract members, and thus reinvent themselves for the twenty-first century. The authors argue that unions can use the web to: develop virtual minority unions at many non-union firms; improve services to members; enhance democracy in unions; aid in industrial disputes; and strengthen the international labour community. They conclude that, if unions fail to exploit the opportunities on the web to gain members, other organizations are likely to provide services to workers on the internet. Copyright Blackwell Publishers Ltd/London School of Economics 2002.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Women work much more in the US than in Germany and most other EU economies. We find that the US\xc2\xbfGerman employment gap is not strongly related to cross-country differences in the level of pay or social benefits. The difference in employment is due to the different marketization of activities between the two economies: German women work as many hours as US women when we consider time spent in household production as well as in market production. For instance, German women spend more time preparing meals while US women use take-out and restaurants more intensely. The organization of some social activities, such as schooling, and the dispersion of skills, as well as pay differences, affect the degree of marketization.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper seeks to explain the greater hours worked by Americans compared to Germans in terms of forward-looking labor supply responses to differences in earnings inequality between the countries. We argue that workers choose current hours of work to gain promotions and advance in the distribution of earnings. Since US earnings are more unequally distributed than German earnings, the same extra work pays off more in the US, generating more hours worked. Supporting this inequality-hours hypothesis, we show that in both countries hours worked is positively related to earnings inequality in cross section occupational contrasts and that hours worked raises future wages and promotion prospects in longitudinal data.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Germany's more compressed wage structure is widely viewed as the main cause of the German-US difference in employment and unemployment, but part of the compression is due to Germany having a narrower distribution of skills than the US. Even adjusted for skills, however, we find that Germany has a more compressed wage distribution than the US. But relatively little of the US-German employment difference can be attributed to the compressed wage distribution. We find that jobless Germans have nearly the same skills as employed Germans and look more like average Americans than like low skilled Americans, which runs counter to the wage compression hypothesis. Given these patterns, the pay and employment experience of low skilled Americans is a poor counterfactual for assessing how reductions in pay might affect jobless Germans. Copyright 2001 by Oxford University Press."] ['Using data from administrative records, the Survey of Income and Program Participation, and the Current Population Survey, we find that the proportion of never married mothers receiving child support rose sharply in the 1980s and 1990s. Using within-state variation over time, we estimate that increased government expenditures on child support are responsible for about one quarter of the upward trend in child support receipt. Our results show that child support expenditures and legislation work best in tandem. States that both increased expenditures and adopted tougher laws experienced the largest increase in the proportion of never married mother families receiving support.'] ['The 1990s economic performance suggests that the US may have the right mix of institutions and policies to be the peak capitalist economy in the new information economy. This paper develops criteria for judging peak status. It finds that the US is a legitimate candidate for peak in terms of employment and productivity but not distribution. The 1990s full employment strengthens the case for the US as peak economy even on distributional grounds. But with anything less than full employment the US economy will lose its luster. Still, the US record in employing women and extending ownership to many workers deserves attention'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The main failure in the US economy in the 1980s through the mid 1990s was its inability to distribute the gains of economic growth to the bulk of the population. The traditional \xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xc5\x93rising tide lifts all boats\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac link between economic growth and poverty seemed broken, creating a large seemingly permanent underclass. To the surprise of many, however, the late 1990s boom has substantially improved the well-being of the disadvantaged and reduced underclass behaviour. Full employment has been a successful anti-poverty policy. But the US is taking a huge risk in placing all of its social policy eggs in the single employment basket. When there are no nuts squirrelled away for winter, one can only hope that the good times will keep rolling.'] ['Labour market rigidities are often considered to be responsible for high unemployment in Europe. This paper outlines a theory explaining why they may be supported by the political system, and where their support comes from. Labour market rigidities are likely to arise as the outcome of microeconomic imperfections which allow incumbent employees to reap rents, and as a device to alleviate redistributive conflicts among groups of workers. Their support depends on the employed\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x84\xa2s exposure to unemployment, the degree of underlying inequality in skills, and the responsiveness of employment to labour costs. It is shown that different labour market institutions, such as employment protection, wage rigidities, and unemployment benefits, may mutually reinforce each other, so that we expect to observe them together. Also discussed are implications for the timing and design of reform.'] ['The most popular explanation for greater job creation in the US than in Germany is that greater dispersion of wages coupled with less regulations governing the labour market and the product market in the US has induced firms to employ many less skilled workers. While popular, these explanations turn out to be difficult to prove empirically. Based on the Comparative German American Structural Database and the International Adult Literacy Survey we find that: employment rates differ more than unemployment rates by skill levels and overall; German and US relative pay by level of skill was similar in 1970 but diverged in the 1980s; the German work force is more skilled than the US work force especially at the lower skill levels; the employment of skilled to unskilled labour within industries is unrelated to country differences in skill premium but changes in relative wages are related to changes in relative employment; and the differing dispersion of wages is not a major contributor to differences in employment rates between Germany and the US. The jobs problem in Germany is not primarily one of relative labor demand but of demand for labor in general.'] ['This study investigates the impact of unionization on closures of firms, business lines, and establishments. Analyzing data from two major data sets-one (from the COMPUSTAT files) on the union status of solvent and insolvent enterprises and business lines, and one (obtained by matching files from the Current Population Survey) on the union status of workers who have lost their jobs due to permanent plant closures or business failures-the authors find little support for the hypothesis that unionization increases the insolvency of firms. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that unions behave in an economically rational manner, pushing wages to the point where union firms may expand less rapidly than nonunion firms, but not to the point where the firm, plant, or business line closes down. (Abstract courtesy JSTOR.)'] ['This paper contrasts the job market in economics with the job market in physics and mathematics, which attract students who are, by conventional measures, smarter than economists and where the base of knowledge is better established than ours. Despite this, economists earn more and have better career prospects than physicists or mathematicians. The paper offers several reasons for our better economic prospects, ranging from lack of glamour attracting bright young people to the dismal science to our inability to solve important problems, which puts us higher up on the marginal product curve for basic research than these fields.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This study of workers\' attitudes compares data from International Social Survey Programme (ISSP) surveys for former communist countries in Europe with ISSP data for Western countries over the period 1987-93, which covers the beginning of the transition to a market economy for the former communist countries. Consistent with their hypothesis that communist-run economies left an attitudinal "legacy," the authors find that the citizens of former communist countries evinced a greater desire for egalitarianism, less satisfaction with their jobs, and more support for strong trade unions and state intervention in the job market and economy than did Westerners. Over the course of the period studied, however, residents of the former communist European countries perceived sizable increases in occupational earnings differentials, and they adjusted their views of the differentials that "ought to" exist in their economies in the direction of greater inequality. (Abstract courtesy JSTOR.)'] ["This paper describes the contribution of David Card, winner of the John Bates Clark Medal, to economics and the new empiricism that has become such an important part of the profession. Card's forte is creative and careful empirical scholarship that exploits modern computerized data sets with thousands or hundreds of thousands of observations and that uses plausible sources of exogenous change in key variables to determine behavioral responses. The work has the flavor of a laboratory scientist reporting an experiment. It has illuminated virtually all areas of labor economics and has implications for the understanding of the economy writ large."] [" Volunteer activity is work performed without monetary recompense. This article shows that volunteering is a sizeable economic activity in the United States, that volunteers have high skills and opportunity costs of time, that standard labor supply explanations of volunteering account for only a minor part of volunteer behavior, and that many volunteer only when requested to do so. This suggests that volunteering is a 'conscience good or activity'--something that people feel morally obligated to do when asked but which they would just as soon let someone else do. Copyright 1997 by University of Chicago Press."] ["This paper shows that participation in crime and involvement with the criminal justice system has reached extraordinary levels among young men. With approximately 2 percent as many men incarcerated as in the labor force, the crime rate should have plummeted. It didn't. Evidence suggests that the depressed labor market for low-skill American workers contributed to the continued high level of crime by less-educated men, despite incapacitation and the deterrent effect of imprisonment. The costs of incarceration are such that even marginally effective prevention policies can be socially desirable."] ['We compare two approaches to analyzing the effects of immigration on the labor market and find that the estimated effect of immigration on U.S. native labor outcomes depends critically on the empirical experiment used. Area analyses contrast the level or change in immigration by area with the level or change in the outcomes of non- immigrant workers. Factor proportions analyses treat immigrants as a source of increased national supply of workers of the relevant skill. Cross-section comparisons of wages and immigration in the 1980 and 1990 Censuses yield unstable results casting doubt on the validity of these calculations. Analyses of changes over time for various education groups within regions give negative estimated immigration effects, which increase in magnitude the wider the area covered. Factor proportions calculations show that immigration was somewhat important in reducing the relative pay of U.S. high school dropouts during the 1980s, while immigration and trade contributed much more modestly to the falling pay of high school equivalent workers. The different effects of immigration on native outcomes in the area and factor proportions methodologies appear to result from the diluting effect of native migration flows across regions and failure to take adequate account of other regional labor market conditions in area comparisons.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This article takes a critical look at the view that wage flexibility, US-style, is the panacea to European unemployment problems. It shows that the wage flexibility in the US in the 1980s-1990s was associated with rising inequality and falling real wages for many workers, reduced rather than increased employment for the low-paid and less-skilled, whose wages fell, and arguably contributed to the growth of a significant criminal population. The proportion of American men incarcerated comes close to the proportion of European men long-term unemployed. The limits to wage flexibility in curing unemployment noted in the paper does not mean the reductions in pay may not, under some circumstances, raise employment, but rather that by themselves massive pay cuts for the low-paid are no cure to economic problems. Copyright 1995 by Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The economic troubles of less-skilled workers in the United States. and OECD-Europe during a period of rising manufacturing imports from third world countries has created a debate about whether, in a global economy, wages or employment are determined by the global rather than domestic labor-market conditions. One side argues that trade is all that matters; another side, that trade does not matter at all. The author rejects these polar views; empirical analysis has found modest but real trade effects in displacement of less-skilled labor and declines in the price of goods produced by low-skilled workers.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper shows a widening in black-white earnings and employment gaps among young men from the mid-1970s through the 1980s. Earnings gaps increased most among college graduates and in the Midwest, while gaps in employment-population rates grew most among dropouts. The authors attribute the differential widening to shifts in demand for subgroups due to shifting industry and regional employment, the falling real minimum wage and deunionization, the growing supply of black to white workers that was marked among college graduates, and to increased crime among dropouts. The different factors affecting subgroups highlight the economic diversity of black Americans. Copyright 1992, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Using establishment-level data from a variety of sources, this study documents and analyzes the consistent rise in interindustry wage dispersion in the United States between 1970 and 1987. The authors attribute about 60% of the rise in this measure of wage dispersion to competitive market factors, such as changes in the demographic and occupational mix of industrial sectors. They find, however, that noncompetitive factors also play an important part in this trend. The most important noncompetitive factor is a strong link between the long-term trends in industry wages and productivity growth, which appears to stem largely from rent-sharing behavior among industries. (Abstract courtesy JSTOR.)'] [' This study investigates the impact of union organization on the wages and labor practices of establishments newly organized in the 1980s. It uses a research design in which establishments are "paired" with their closest nonunion competitor. If finds that, unionism had only a modest effect on wages in the newly organized plants, which contrasts sharply with the huge union wage impact found in cross-section comparisons of union and nonunion individuals, but unionism substantially alters several personnel practices, creating grievance systems, greater seniority protection, and job bidding and posting. That newly organized establishments adopt union working conditions but grant only modest wage increases suggests that "collective voice" rather than monopoly wage gains is the key to understanding new unionism. Copyright 1990 by University of Chicago Press.'] ["Using data from a 1986 survey of employers and a 1982-83 survey of union organizers, the authors investigate the determinants and consequences of employer opposition to union organizing drives. They find that strong management opposition, as evidenced by, for example, the filing of formal charges of unfair labor practices against management, was most likely when the firm had relatively low wages, poor working conditions, and supervisory problems; when the likelihood of union victory was uncertain; and when the potential union compensation differential-and thus the potential effect on firm profits-was high. Opposition by supervisors was particularly effective in defeating union drives. The authors conclude that firms' responses to organizing drives were consistent with the motive of profit maximization, and that management opposition has been an important determinant of the decline of unionization. (Abstract courtesy JSTOR.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper seeks to understand the recent decline of union density in Japan from 35% in 1975 to 28% in 1987. The decline in density is analyzed in terms of the changing proportion of workers in high and low unionization groups and the changes in density within those groups. Then using a stockflow relationship we look at how the organizing rate of new unions affects the overall density. A regression model assesses our interpretation of changes in Japanese density. Our principal findings are: (1) Structural shifts in the composition of employment and of the demographics of the work force account for only a modest proportion of the drop in Japanese density. As in the United States, most changes in density occur within industries and among defined demographic groups of workers. (2) Much of the decline in density is associated with the inability of Japanese unions to organize new establishments. We attribute this in part to lowered worker interest and stiffened management opposition to unionism following the oil shock, buttressed by unfavorable changes in the political and legal environment for collective bargaining and for union organization. and by other management actions, such as creating additional pseudomanagerial posts for older male workers.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This article demonstrates that state collective bargaining laws are important determinants of union and nonunion public employee compensation. State laws that provide stronger bargaining rights and ensure closure to the bargaining process increase the direct effect of police unions on compensation. Moreover, indirect threat effects on the pay of nonunion police also increase with stronger bargaining laws. In each law category investigated, nonunion police receive most of the compensation premium enjoyed by unionized police. Previous studies that have not adequately controlled for these effects of bargaining laws have therefore underestimated the full effect of public-sector unions on compensation. Copyright 1989 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper examines the relationship between population growth and economic growth in developing countries from 1965 to 1985. Our results indicate that developing countries were able to shift their labor force from low-productivity agriculture to the higher-productivity industry and service sectors, and to increase productivity within those sectors, despite the rapid growth of their populations. We also find that at given rates of population growth, income growth is related to the time path of population growth and that population growth due to high birth and death rates is associated with slower income growth than population growth due to relatively low birth and death rates. Hence, the timing and components of population growth are important elements in the process of economic development.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Japan has a relatively unique system of labor compensation. Most Japanese workers are paid large bonuses twice a year. This paper examines the cyclical movement of bonuses compared with wages and the relation of bonuses to employment in the context of the Weitzman "share economy." The paper makes three basic points:(1) The Japanese bonus is much more pro-cyclical than Japanese base wages,but not as cyclically variable as profits. Bonuses can be interpreted as containing a quantitatively significant revenue or profit-sharing component.(2) Bonuses have quite different employment consequences than do base wages. Even after controlling for other economic factors, bonuses are positively related to employment, whereas base wages are negatively related to employment.(3) The bonus system of paying workers, while far from explaining the whole macroeconomic story in Japan, seems to play a role in helping to stabilize Japanese unemployment at comparatively low levels.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper argues that under current U.S. institutional arrangements, in which managements opposition to unions is as important as workers and unions,the magnitude of the union wage premium actually reduces organization rather than increasing it. It reduces organizing success by lowering profits, thus giving management a greater incentive to oppose unions. It shows that in the traditional monopoly model, any given premium can cause management to donate more resources to opposing a union than workers will donate to organizing. Empirical evidence from NLRB elections supports the model in which larger premiums induce greater opposition and thus reduce union organizing success.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["This paper argues that public sector labor relations is best understood in a framework that focuses on unions' ability to shift demand curves rather than to raise wages, as is the case in the private sector. It reviews the public sector labor relations literature and finds that: (i) public sector unionism has flourished as a result of changes in laws; (2) the effects of public sector unions on wages are likely to have been underestimated; (3) public sector unions have a somewhat different effect on wage structures than do private sector unions; (4) compulsory arbitration reduces strikes with no clearcut impact on the level of wage settlements; (5) public sector unions have diverse effects on non-wage outcomes as do private sector unions. In terms of evaluating public sector unionism, the paper argues that by raising both the cost of public services (taxes) and the amount of services public sector unionism involves a different welfare calculus than private sector unionism.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['This paper examines how measurement error biases longitudinal estimates of union effects. It develops numerical examples, statistical models, and econometric estimates which indicate that measurement error is a major problem in longitudinal data sets, so that longitudinal analyses do not provide the research panacea for determining the effects of unionism (or other economic forces) some have suggested. There are three major findings:1) The difference between the cross-section and longitudinal estimates is attributable in large part to random error in the measurement of who changes union status. Given modest errors of measurement, of the magnitudes observed,and a moderate proportion of workers changing union status, also of the magnitudes observed, measurement error biases downward estimated effects of unions by substantial amounts. 2) Longitudinal analysis of the effects of unionism on nonwage and wage outcomes tends to confirm the significant impact of unionism found in cross-section studies, with the longitudinal estimates of both nonwage and wage outcomes lover in the longitudinal analysis than in the cross-section analysis of the same data set. 3) The likely upward bias of cross-section estimates of the effect of unions and the likely downward bias of longitudinal estimates suggests that,under reasonable conditions, the two sets of estimates bound the "true" union impact posited in standard models of what unions do.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This study analyzes establishment-level data primarily to examine the effect of unionism on the wage structure within establishments. The major finding is that within-establishment dispersion of wages is significantly narrower in unionized than in nonunionized establishments, a pattern the author attributes in large part to unions' wage practices, such as single rate or automatic-progression modes of wage payment as opposed to merit reviews and individual wage determination. The data also show that dispersion in average wages is narrower among organized plants, but by more modest amounts than the within-establishment differential. Overall, the evidence suggests a major role for explicit union wage policies in explaining the dispersion of wages within firms and in the economy as a whole. (Abstract courtesy JSTOR.)"] ["The Minimum Wage Study Commission was established in 1977 to aid Congress in investigating the effects and possible consequences of two proposed changes in the minimum wage law: indexing the wage to inflation and providing for a youth differential. This paper seeks to determine to what extent the Minimum Wage Study Commission's work has been helpful in policy debate, and compares the Commission's findings with those of the more conservative American Enterprise Institute. The paper also examines whether the Commission's final product was worth three years of study and $17 million. Our overall finding is that the Commission's report appears to have had little or no policy impact. The research did little to expand upon similar studies done prior to 1977, and cannot be said to be worth three years and $17 million. However, policy-makers still regard the report as a useful and credible examination of the effects of the mini- mum wage on the economy.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This study analyzes the impact of unionism on fringes paid to production workers, using data on individual establishments. It compares fringe expenditures in establishments having the same level of compensation per hour and finds that unionism raises the share of compensation allotted to fringes, particularly to pensions, vacation pay, and life, accident, and health insurance. In addition, since unionism also raises the straight-time wage rate, itself a prime determinant of expenditures on fringes, unionism has a very sizeable impact on total fringe expenditures, as well as on the fringe share of compensation. The union fringe effect exceeds, in percentage terms, the union wage effect and is sufficiently large to suggest that standard union wage studies understate the union effect on total compensation. The study also compares the fringe expenditures of production and non-production workers within the same establishment, controlling for within-establishment pay policies. The findings suggest that the presence of a union among production workers in an establishment may have a sizeable spillover effect on the fringes paid nonproduction workers in that establishment. (Abstract courtesy JSTOR.)'] ['The fixed coefficient "manpower requirements" model has the advantage of providing information on the effect of changes in the industrial composition of an economy on demand for labor in highly disaggregated occupations, although at the cost of neglecting factor substitution. This study examines the ability of the fixed coefficient model to explain changes in employment in 3-digit occupations in the United States from 1960 to 1970 and develops an "augmented requirements" model that uses changes in wages as well as fixed coefficient shifts in demand to analyze changes in employment. The study finds that (1) by themselves, the requirements shifts account for much of the change in employment among detailed occupations in the period studied; (2) demand for detailed skills is far from zero elastic; and (3) the fixed coefficient model seems to work, not because demand and supply are economically unresponsive, but because the variation in the wage structure and corresponding incentive to alter input coefficient is moderate relative to the variation in the shift in demand due to changes in industrial mix.'] ['This paper examines the hypothesis that "overeducated" workers receive lower earnings returns to a year of educational attainment than those who are not mismatched. Data from the Current Population Survey reveal that those who are mismatched actually ...'] ["This study analyzes the extent to which the state of the doctorate manpower market can be appraised by the proportion of new Ph.D.s seeking work but having no specific job prospects. A model is developed relating that market indicator to the supply and demand for graduates and relating first-year enrollment in graduate programs to the level of the indicator. Estimates of the model based on time-series data for all Ph.D.s and individual specialties and on pooled cross-section-time-series data suggest that the employment opportunities indicator provides valuable information about the doctorate marketplace and is a useful non-price tool for manpower analysis. (Author's abstract.)"] ['This paper investigates the magnitude of the elasticity of demand for labor in time series data using more general and complete models of demand than have been previously employed. It argues that previous analyses have imposed two invalid constraints in calculations, which bias downward estimated elasticities. The first invalid constraint is the assumption that real capital prices have an equal opposite effect to real wages in the demand equation. We show on measurement error grounds that this constraint should not be imposed in econometric work even when long run homogeneity of prices correctly characterizes the market. The constraint is rejected in the data. The second invalid constraint is that all explanatory variables have the same lag distribution. We argue that this constraint is invalid when decisions are made under uncertainty and find that it is also rejected by the data. The principal positive empirical finding is that with the constraints relaxed, the elasticity, of demand with respect to real wages is much larger than the estimates in the literature, indicating much greater price responsiveness on the demand side of the labor market than has previously been thought.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["[fre] Cette \xc3\xa9tude pr\xc3\xa9sente et compare l'exactitude des deux conceptions du syndicalisme aux Etats-Unis.. D'apr\xc3\xa8s la conception \xc2\xab du monopole \xc2\xbb, les syndicats exercent une influence n\xc3\xa9faste au sein des syst\xc3\xa8mes capitalistes avanc\xc3\xa9s, augmentant les salaires de leurs adh\xc3\xa9rents au-dessus de ce qu'ils seraient autrement et renfor\xc3\xa7ant ainsi le degr\xc3\xa9 d'inefficience \xc3\xa9conomique et d'in\xc3\xa9galit\xc3\xa9.. La seconde conception fait r\xc3\xa9f\xc3\xa9rence \xc3\xa0 l'approche institutionnelle en terme de n\xc3\xa9gociations-participation : \xc2\xab Voice \xc2\xbb. D'apr\xc3\xa8s cette derni\xc3\xa8re, les syndicats permet\xc2\xadtent aux travailleurs d'exprimer collectivement leurs pr\xc3\xa9f\xc3\xa9rences, \xc2\xab Voice \xc2\xbb m\xc3\xa9ca\xc2\xadnisme primordial en l'absence de possibilit\xc3\xa9s v\xc3\xa9ritables d'exprimer celles-ci par une d\xc3\xa9mission individuelle : \xc2\xab Exit \xc2\xbb. L'expression collective des pr\xc3\xa9f\xc3\xa9rences, le \xc2\xab Voice \xc2\xbb, conduit \xc3\xa0 un changement profond de la relation d'emploi et contribue ainsi \xc3\xa0 la croissance des niveaux de productivit\xc3\xa9 et d'\xc3\xa9galit\xc3\xa9 sous de nombreux aspects.. On montre dans cette \xc3\xa9tude que les partisans de la conception \xc2\xab du monopole \xc2\xbb en ignorant l'impact du o Voice \xc2\xbb, entretiennent des croyances injustifi\xc3\xa9es \xc3\xa0 l'\xc3\xa9gard des syndicats de ce pays.. Il appara\xc3\xaet que, l'un dans l'autre, les syndicats ne r\xc3\xa9duisent pas l'efficacit\xc3\xa9 ou l'\xc3\xa9galit\xc3\xa9 \xc3\xa9conomique et ne sont pas, contrairement \xc3\xa0 une opinion souvent exprim\xc3\xa9e, des organisations fonci\xc3\xa8rement corrompues, anti-d\xc3\xa9mocratiques et \xc3\xa9litistes. [eng] change the nature of the employment relationship and, in so doing, increases the levels of productivity and equality in many settings.. The evidence presented indicates that those who focus on the monopoly face of unionisan and ignore the collective voice/institutional response view are likely to hold erroneous beliefs about unions in this country. The facts indicate that on net unions do not reduce efficiency or equality and are not corrupt, nondemocratic, or elitist organizations."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This study examines the effect of trade unionism on the dispersion of wages among male wage and salary workers in the private sector in the United States. It finds that the application of union wage policies designed to standardize rates within and across establishments significantly reduces wage dispersion among workers covered by union contracts and that unions further reduce wage dispersion by narrowing the white-collar/blue-collar differential within establishments. These effects dominate the more widely studied impact of unionism on the dispersion of average wages across industries, so that on net unionism appears to reduce rather than increase wage dispersion or inequality in the United States. (Abstract courtesy JSTOR.)'] ['The age-earnings profile of male workers is significantly influenced by the age composition of the workforce. When the number of young workers increased sharply in the 1970s, the profile "twisted" against them, apparently because younger and older male workers are imperfect substitutes in production. The effect is especially marked among college graduates. By contrast, the age-earnings profile of female workers appears to be little influenced by the age composition of the female workforce, possibly because the intermittent work experience of women makes younger and older women closer substitutes in production. The dependence of the age-earnings profile on demographically induced movements along a relative demand schedule suggests that standard human capital models of the profile, which posit that earnings rise with age and experience solely as a result of individual investment behavior, are incomplete.'] ['Estimates the extent of unionism in the United States. Prerequisite for analysis of the economic effects of trade unions; Membership rates for occupational groups and geographical areas; Information on a principal establishment survey; Purpose of data derived from household surveys; Importance of membership data provided by unions. (Abstract copyright EBSCO.)'] ['The purpose of this paper is to examine these concerns and evaluate the use of job satisfaction (and other subjective variables) in labor market analysis. The main theme is that, while there are good reasons to treat subjective variables gingerly, the answers to questions about how people feel toward their job are not meaningless but rather convey useful information about economic life that should not be ignored. The paper begins with a brief description of the satisfaction questions on major worker surveys, and then considers the use of satisfaction as an independent and as a dependent variable. Satisfaction is shown to be a major determinant of labor market mobility, in part it is argued because it reflects aspects of the work place not captured by standard objective variable8. Satisfaction is also found to depend anomolously on some economic variables (such as unionism) in ways that provide insight into how those factors affect people.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Examines the changes in the employment pattern of African-American faculties in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Factors affecting the increase in demand for African-American faculty members; Comparison of income and characteristics between African-American and White American faculty members; Impact of academic qualifications on income. (Abstract copyright EBSCO.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper examines the impact of de jure desegregation on education in the South and of increased black voting power on the demand for black schoolteachers in the United States. Because changes in the black share of voters in the post-World War II South are due largely to "exogenous" national laws (the Voting Rights Act of 1965, in particular), the paper provides a unique test of the impact of changes in political power on public decision making. The main finding is that increased black voting power appears to have raised demand for black schoolteachers in the 1960s. There is additional suggestive evidence that black voting power operated in part through election of black officials. The increase in demand due to the changes in voting offset most of the reduction in demand due to desegregation of schooling in the South, averting the potential dire effects of desegregated education on employment of black teachers. Instead of declining, relative employment of blacks in teaching was maintained, and relative incomes rose in the 1950s and 1960s. These results are consistent with the broad "governmental discrimination" hypothesis that much of the economic progress or retrogression of blacks in the United States is explicable in terms of black political power and resultant governmental activity.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Analyzes the condition of the engineering market in the United States from 1948 to 1972. Changes in the engineering market; Information on cobweb models of engineering manpower; Computation of the salary of engineers. (Abstract copyright EBSCO.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']