 [' Happiness research is one of the most vivid and fruitful parts of modern economics. The focus is on empirical findings. In contrast, theoretical work has been rather neglected. The paper deals with three areas needing more analytical work: the choice or imposition of comparison or reference groups; and the extent, speed and symmetry of adaptation to positive and negative shocks on happiness. In both areas, theoretical propositions are derived which can in the future be empirically tested. The third area relates to the political economy of happiness. Many governments intend to take the happiness index as a criterion of how successful their policies are. As a consequence, survey respondents get an incentive to misrepresent their happiness level, and governments to manipulate the aggregate happiness indicator in their favor. A country\xe2\x80\x99s constitution must induce governments to carefully observe human rights, democracy, the decentralization of political decision making, and market institutions and provide people with the possibility to acquire a good education and find a suitable job. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014'] ['Much recent research in economics focuses on exploring behavioral anomalies, i.e., systematic deviations from the assumptions of the rationally self-interested model of man. Laboratory studies are used to identify seeming inconsistencies with micro-economic theory on the level of individuals. Since economics is a social science, this article proposes that the next crucial step consists in shifting the focus to the macro-level. It examines the process through which behavioral anomalies are aggregated to a societal outcome. Since individuals are reactive when they interact with others and face institutional constraints, the aggregation process may lead to different outcomes than what has been observed in individual-level studies: the respective anomalies may disappear, or they may become stronger on the macro-level. The discussion demonstrates that there are a great number of aspects to be analyzed. The paper presents fragments of what could become a more extensive field of research.'] ['Die Zweifel wachsen, ob allein die H\xc3\xb6he und der Verlauf des Bruttoinlandsprodukts ausreichen, den Wohlstand einer Gesellschaft zu messen. Um diese Frage zu diskutieren, hatte der Deutsche Bundestag Anfang 2011 eine Enquete-Kommission eingerichtet, die im Fr\xc3\xbchjahr 2013 ihren Abschlussbericht vorgelegt hat. Dies nahmen die Akademie f\xc3\xbcr Politische Bildung Tutzing und das ifo Institut zum Anlass, unter der Leitung von Dr. Wolfgang Quaisser, Akademie f\xc3\xbcr Politische Bildung Tutzing, und Prof. Dr. Kai Carstensen, ifo Institut am 7. und 8. Juni 2013 eine Fachtagung zu organisieren, um die Ergebnisse zu diskutieren. Einige der dort vorgestellten Vortr\xc3\xa4ge werden hier ver\xc3\xb6ffentlicht.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper reports the findings from a survey experiment conducted online at IBM to assess the impact of employee awards on behavior in the workplace. We document that the introduction of a hypothetical award has statistically significant effects on the stated willingness to contribute to a public good. Our design allows us to estimate the impact of different award characteristics related to, for example, how public or how valuable the award is. The stated willingness to share important information with colleagues increases monotonically with the value of the monetary payment or gift that comes with the award and is lower for gifts than payments of equal value. Moreover, publicity has a substantial positive effect: a ceremony increases stated contributions by as much as increasing the value of the award from $0 to $1000.'] ['In recent years, the art market experienced a price explosion for paintings. Frey and Cueni shed light on the reasons for the price increase, on the rate of return in the art market, on the emergence and decline of art hedge funds, and on the risks of art investments.'] [' My contribution presents a possibility to unify Europe based on newly emerging political units focused on solving problems rather than on historically given nation states. These Endogenous Political Entities (EPE), as they shall be called, are better suited to reach the goals of European unification as they strengthen the fundamental European values of variety and freedom. I make three propositions: to base the unification of Europe on nation states is unfortunate as the latter are responsible for the political disaster of the two World Wars; the unification must proceed in a problem-oriented manner. The constitution of Europe must allow and promote EPE to emerge specifically to deal with particular problems; the new political units can be introduced in marginal steps. Over time, a flexible and dynamic net of political entities will arise taking care of the large economic, social and cultural diversity in Europe. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013'] [' In the course of history, a large number of politicians have been assassinated. To investigate this phenomenon, rational choice hypotheses are developed and tested using a large data set covering close to 100 countries over a period of 20 years. Several strategies, in addition to security measures, are shown to significantly reduce the probability of politicians being attacked or killed: extended institutional and governance quality, democracy, voice and accountability, a well-functioning system of law and order, decentralization via the division of power and federalism, larger cabinet size and a stronger civil society. There is also support for a contagion effect. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2013'] ['Many artists are prone to high unemployment and low incomes suggesting low job satisfaction. Our analysis including 49 countries paints a different picture. On average artists enjoy higher job satisfaction than other employees, mainly due to more autonomy.'] [' The UNESCO World Heritage List is designed to protect the global heritage. We show that, with respect to countries and continents, the existing World Heritage List is highly imbalanced. Major econometric determinants of this imbalance are historical GDP, historical population, area in square kilometers of a country, and number of years of high civilization. Surprisingly, economic and political factors, such as membership on the UN Security Council, which should be unrelated to the value of a country\xe2\x80\x99s heritage and therefore should have no impact, are shown to have a systematic impact on the composition of the World Heritage List. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2013'] [' Happiness research has been a great success by yielding new and important insights. These results are often used in a technocratic manner: Governments should maximize, or at least raise, the subjective well-being of the population measured by the national happiness index. Yet the government has strong incentives and a wide range of possibilities to manipulate this index to its advantage. Happiness policy must be part of the normal democratic process where divergent views are considered and aggregated. In particular, competition between parties is a prerequisite for the insights from happiness research put to the benefit of the citizens.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' In economics there is presently an almost revolutionary development. The direct measurement of subjective welfare challenges traditional economics, inspires it, and opens new avenues for scientific research. The approaches and possibilities of an economic analysis of happiness are shown and illustrated with two specific applications. The relationship between income and life satisfaction is strongly shaped by the aspiration level serving to evaluate life conditions. The aspiration levels are formed by social comparisons and adaptation processes. The Life Satisfaction Approach is a new method to capture the value of public goods. The short discussion of governmental \xe2\x80\x9chappiness policy\xe2\x80\x9d from a constitutional viewpoint suggests a comparative institutional analysis of subjective well-being. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2012'] [' Happiness research has dealt with a great number of determinants of well-being but has neglected the effect of war. Wars drastically reduce people\xe2\x80\x99s happiness. The large psychic costs of soldiers, the suffering of civilians, and the material destruction are well documented. An important issue for happiness research is how to calculate the forgone well-being of the people killed in war. Wars may also increase happiness by providing shared experiences, raising national pride, and \xe2\x80\x9cennobling\xe2\x80\x9d people. \xe2\x80\x9cCombat flow\xe2\x80\x9d increases an individual soldier\xe2\x80\x99s subjective happiness. Deep issues are elicited regarding what type of happiness is legitimate. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2012'] ['Management research has long focused on the theory of the firm, studying for-profit organizations that produce privately owned resources based on central authority and within well-defined boundaries. In recent times, a new kind of enterprise has emerged that we call Community Enterprises. They are barrier free and extend beyond the reach of strong, personal relationships and are characterized by the production of appropriation-free resources and the absence of boundaries. Wikipedia is the most successful example of such a Community Enterprise. Assumptions and principles underneath related fields such as organizational theory, innovation economics, and industrial organization should therefore be critically examined.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Political Economy and Public Choice have studied the interactions between the economy and the polity for over 60 years now. The present paper endeavours to provide a critical discussion of this literature and its achievements. In particular, it starts with the different approaches based on empirically tested or politometric models, and it then proceeds to discuss different studies of the effects that particular rules of the game have on politico-economic outcomes. The third part will deal with studies that take institutions to be endogenous and aim at ex-plaining why particular institutions emerge. Finally, the question whether political economy has been a success or a failure will be tackled. While the success in terms of the position gained in economic research and teaching is undeniable, a look at one of the most thriving recent areas of economics, namely happiness research, will reveal that fundamental lessons all too often remain disregarded.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Gordon Tullock has been one of the most important founders and contributors to Public Choice. Two innovations are typical \xe2\x80\x9cTullock Challenges\xe2\x80\x9d. The first relates to method: the measurement of subjective well-being, or happiness. The second relates to digital social networks such as Facebook, Twitter, or to some extent Google. Both innovations lead to strong incentives by the governments to manipulate the policy consequences. In general \xe2\x80\x9cWhat is important, will be manipulated by the government\xe2\x80\x9d. To restrain government manipulation one has to turn to Constitutional Economics and increase the possibilities for direct popular participation and federalism, or introduce random mechanisms.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper argues that the \xe2\x80\x9cEconomics of Crime\xe2\x80\x9d concentrates too much on punishment as a policy to fight crime, which is unwise for several reasons. There are important instances in which punishment simply cannot reduce crime. Several feasible alternatives to punishment exist, such as offering positive incentives or handing out awards for law abiding behavior. These alternative approaches tend to create a positive sum environment. When people appreciate living in a society that is to a large extent law abiding, they are more motivated to observe the law.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Happiness research has significantly extended our knowledge about the factors determining individual well-being. Several prominent scholars concluded that governments should engage in maximizing happiness. This approach is based on a technocratic notion that politicians are omniscient benevolent dictators.In contrast, the constitutional approach considers individuals as citizens who, behind the veil of ignorance, choose political rules producing the best possible outcome. Citizens are aware of the Manipulation Principle stating that government tends to distort official happiness indicators in its favour. Citizens therefore demand extensive democratic participation rights allowing them to pursue the kind of happiness they desire.'] ['In a former article we started to argue that publication and citation rankings of individual scholars do not effectively measure research quality, which should in fact be the essence of evaluation (Frey and Rost (2010)). For the field of economics we show that an alternative ranking based on membership on academic editorial boards of professional journals is randomly correlated with citation and publication rankings of these scholars. In this article we go a step further by hypothesizing a systematic, inverted U-shaped relationship between quantitative and qualitative rankings. By relying on a longitudinal data set of management scholars who are part of the international topcommunity in organization science the findings support this multi-tasking effect. While a certain amount of publications indeed reflects aspects of research quality, it also suggests that maximizing publications ignores other essential aspects of research quality that are doubtlessly hard to measure. It follows that if career decisions are only based on high scores in publication rankings the result will be not only haphazard but may be even counterproductive for science.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Awards are shown to be of great importance in all societies, in particular in the economy. Nevertheless, economic research has disregarded the determinants and consequences of awards. The paper argues that awards constitute a relevant extrinsic, but non-material form of reward systematically affecting work effort. Data are provided on the distribution of various types of awards in a selection of countries, discusses the differences between awards and money, and considers several possible methods such as surveys, vignette studies, laboratory and field experiments and econometric analyses of specific firms to capture the incentive effects of awards. Copyright 2010 die Autoren Journal compilation 2010, Verein f\xc3\xbcr Socialpolitik und Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] ["In many countries, environmental policies and regulations are implemented to improve environmental quality and thus individuals' well-being. However, how do individuals value the environment&amp;quest; In this paper, we review the life satisfaction approach (LSA), which represents a new nonmarket valuation technique. The LSA builds on the recent development of subjective well-being research in economics and takes measures of reported life satisfaction as an empirical approximation to individual welfare. Microeconometric life satisfaction functions are estimated, taking into account environmental conditions along with income and other covariates. The estimated coefficients for the environmental good and income can then be used to calculate the implicit willingness to pay for the environmental good."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Which schools of thought are favored by German economists? What makes a good economist and which economists have been most influential? These questions were addressed in a survey, conducted in the summer of 2006 among the members of the 'Verein fur Socialpolitik'. An econometric analysis is used to identify to what extent ideological preferences or personal factors determine the respondents' answers. Our results suggest that German economists favor neoclassical economic theory as a school of thought and appreciate the contributions of their Anglo-Saxon colleagues much more than their fellow compatriots' contributions. Furthermore, a 'good' economist should have expertise in a certain field, as well as a broader knowledge of general economics. Some of the results can be compared to Colander (2008). The results indicate that graduate programs noted for their American style greatly influence a student's opinion as to what attributes a good economist must have."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper explores what determines the survival of people in a life-and-death situation. The sinking of the Titanic allows us to inquire whether pro-social behavior matters in such extreme situations. This event can be considered a quasi-natural experiment. The empirical results suggest that social norms such as 'women and children first' persevered during such an event. Women of reproductive age and crew members had a higher probability of survival. Passenger class, fitness, group size, and cultural background also mattered."] ['Standard economic theory suggests that more choice is usually better. We address this claim and investigate whether people can cope with the increasing number of television programs and watch the amount of TV they find optimal for themselves or whether they are prone to over-consumption. We find that heavy TV viewers do not benefit but instead report lower life satisfaction with access to more TV channels. This finding suggests that an identifiable group of individuals experiences a self-control problem when it comes to TV viewing.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The financial crisis is a crisis of governance as well. In search of answers and solutions many scholars and practitioners recommend improved output control, i.e. better external incentives or even stricter regulations. Monasteries demonstrate that alternative models may be more suitable to enhance sustainable governance quality and to reduce agency problems. In the long history of monasteries, some abbots and monks were known to line their own pockets and some monasteries were undisciplined. Monasteries developed special systems to combat these excesses thus ensuring their survival over centuries. We study these features from an economic perspective. Derived from an analysis of the Benedictine monastery of Engelberg we offer three improvements of applied governance designed to reduce agency problems. First, monastic governance emphasizes clan control rather than output control. Monasteries demonstrate that organizations can prevent agency problems by complementing external discipline with internal behavioral incentives, such as value systems and voice. Second, organization members making firm-specific investments are motivated by broad participation rights and co-determination. Third, the Benedictines are able to apply supportive external control mechanisms, which are not perceived as controlling.'] ['Publication and citation rankings have become major indicators of the scientific worth of universities and determine to a large extent the career of individual scholars. Such rankings do not effectively measure research quality, which should be the essence of any evaluation. These quantity rankings are not objective; two citation rankings, based on different samples, produce entirely different results. For that reason, an alternative ranking is developed as a quality indicator, based on membership on academic editorial boards of professional journals. It turns out that the ranking of individual scholars based on that measure is far from objective. Furthermore, the results differ markedly, depending on whether research quantity or quality is considered. Thus, career decisions based on rankings are dominated by chance and do not reflect research quality. We suggest that evaluations should rely on multiple criteria. Public management should return to approved methods such as engaging independent experts who in turn provide measurements of research quality for their research communities.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Die oekonomische Forschung nutzt bei der Analyse der Religion im Wesentlichen zwei Herangehensweisen. Der erste Ansatz beschaeftigt sich mit dem Einfluss der Religion auf die Wirtschaft. Die Religionen beinhalten ein Wertesystem, welches oekonomische Einstellungen und die Produktion beeinflussen. Innerhalb des zweiten Ansatzes wird religioeses Verhalten mit Hilfe oekonomischer Modelle erklaert. Diese zeigen, wie Individuen Nutzen aus Religion ziehen koennen. Die moderne Gluecksforschung ermoeglicht es des Weiteren, den Einfluss von Religion auf das subjektive Wohlbefinden empirisch zu messen. Wir bestaetigen die positive Korrelation von Religion und Glueck fuer die Schweiz und zeigen, dass vor allem der positive Effekt des Kirchgangs auf das Wohlergehen robust und betraechtlich ist. (This survey intends to portray the two main approaches of economic research on religion. The first investigates the impact of religion on the economy. Religion and the internalized value system are found to influence economic attitudes output in a favorable way. The second approach is to explain religious behavior with economic models showing how an individual can derive utility from religion. Modern happiness research makes it possible to measure the impact of religion on subjective well-being empirically. The literature finds a positive correlation of religion and happiness, with a robust effect of churchgoing and protestant confession, while the results on internal religiosity are more ambiguous. In our analyses for Switzerland we are able to confirm these results and show that the effect of church going on happiness is quite sizeable.)'] ['Many governments as well as terrorist experts see the use of military and police forces as the only way to effectively counter terrorism. The most effective negative sanctions are considered to be military strikes, aggressive actions (including kidnapping and killing) against individuals known or suspected of being terrorists, or against persons supporting and harboring terrorists. Overt and covert military and paramilitary action is also thought advisable to pre-empt and prevent actions by terrorist groups, as well as against states suspected of hosting or tolerating terrorists. This paper argues that decentralization constitutes a powerful antidote as it strongly reduces the incentives for terrorists to attack and because the expected damage suffered is much smaller than in a centralized society. It moreover strengthens society, as economic, political and social decentralization (or polycentricity) is an essential element of a free and vigorous society. This in turn makes a society less vulnerable to terrorist attacks. Indeed, terrorism has no chance of success against a society that actively guards its fundamental liberal institutions, of which decentralized decision-making forms an essential part.'] ['"What can business do to cope more successfully with terrorism?" The policy against terrorism available to business is a neglected issue in the scholarly literature especially in so far as individual firms rather than the business sector as a whole are concerned. Two sets of proposals are advanced, based on an economic analysis of terrorism. The first set discusses possibilities to reduce terrorists\' incentives to attack business premises; the second part outlines proposals designed to minimize the costs to businesses once a terrorist attack has taken place, hence reducing the impact.'] ['The economics of crime concentrates on policies in the form of punishments. To adopt such a policy is unwise for several reasons. On the one hand, there are important instances in which punishment is unable to reduce crime or may even increase it. On the other hand, there are feasible alternatives such as positive incentives for law-abiding behavior. These alternative approaches tend to create a positive-sum environment by encouraging intrinsically motivated, proper conduct. The possibilities and limits of the proposed positive approaches are discussed using terrorism as an example. Die \xc3\x96konomik der Kriminalit\xc3\xa4t und die darauf aufbauende \xc3\x96konomik der Sicherheit konzentrieren sich vorwiegend auf Strafen als Mittel der Politik. Dies ist aus verschiedenen Gr\xc3\xbcnden unklug. Zum einen gibt es eine Reihe von Bedingungen, unter denen Bestrafung nicht wirkt oder die Zahl der Straftaten sogar erh\xc3\xb6ht. Zum anderen existieren effektive Alternativen zur Bestrafung. Insbesondere sind dies positive Anreize, wie Belohnungen f\xc3\xbcr gesetzestreues Verhalten. Eine auf Belohnungen aufbauende Politik schafft eine positive Atmosph\xc3\xa4re, die intrinsisch motiviertes, gesetzestreues Verhalten f\xc3\xb6rdert und damit f\xc3\xbcr alle Seiten vorteilhaft ist. Die M\xc3\xb6glichkeiten und Grenzen positiver Ans\xc3\xa4tze zur Sicherheitserh\xc3\xb6hung werden am Beispiel Terrorismus diskutiert.'] ['Economists traditionally focus on monetary compensation when examining incentives, but awards are of immense practical relevance as can be inferred from their prevalence in the form of state orders, decorations and prizes, according to Bruno Frey and Susanne Neckermann.'] ["Summary We discuss Starbuck's proposal to improve decision processes in scholarly evaluation. While we agree that more variety is needed in evaluation committees, we suggest to enlist scholars from other research fields rather than people from outside academia. We disagree with the proposal that more and better indicators of research effectiveness will improve research. We argue that this even would lead to worse results than what is observed today. Attention would be deviated from the content of research, and intrinsic motivation, which is essential for good research, would be crowded out. We propose that evaluations that are based on indicators need to be pushed back. After a careful selection process, researchers need to be given the opportunity to pursue the research they consider to be fruitful."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The paper investigates the relationship between pro-social norms and its implications for improved environmental outcomes. This is an area, which has been neglected in the environmental economics literature. We provide empirical evidence to demonstrate a small but significant positive impact between perceived environmental cooperation (reduced public littering) and increased voluntary environmental morale. For this purpose we use European Values Survey (EVS) data for 30 European countries. We also demonstrate that Western European countries are more sensitive to perceived environmental cooperation than the public in Eastern Europe. Interestingly, the results also demonstrate that environmental morale is strongly correlated with several socio-economic and environmental variables. Several robustness tests are conducted to check the validity of the results.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Awards are prevalent in all societies and at all times. So far, however, they have escaped the attention of economists. This paper presents a first analysis of awards, distinguishing them from purely monetary forms of rewards. Additionally, popular notions about the use and prevalence of awards are addressed with descriptive statistics from the International Who's Who."] [" Scholars today are under increasing pressure to publish in A journals, the main role of which consists in certifying that a paper meets traditional academic standards. Consequences of this pressure are multiple authorship, the slicing of ideas, and incentives to deviate from the truth. The overburdened reviewers' evaluations are characterized by selfish efforts to protect their intellectual capital and to avoid risk. The behaviour of editors depends much on whether there are a large or small number of editors. Copyright 2009 Blackwell Publishing Ltd."] ['Academic economists today are caught in a ?Publication Impossibility Theorem System? or PITS. To further their careers, they are required to publish in A-journals, but this is impossible for the vast majority because there are few slots open in such journals. Such academic competition is held to provide the right incentives for hard work, but there may be serious negative consequences: the wrong output may be produced in an inefficient way, the wrong people may be selected, and the losers may react in a harmful way. The paper suggests several ways for improvement.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper analyzes and compares different ways of assessing how people perceived impending threats of war in the past. Conventional Nordic historiography of World War II claims there were few, if any, people in the Nordic countries who perceived a significantly increased threat of war between 1938 and early 1940. At the same time, historical methods face problems when it comes to capturing the often tacitly held beliefs of a large number of people in the past. In this paper, we analyze these assessments by looking at sudden shifts in sovereign debt yields and spreads in the Nordic bond markets at that time. Our results suggest that Nordic contemporaries indeed perceived significant war risk increases around the time of major war-related geopolitical events. While these findings question some--but not all--of standard Nordic World War II historiography, they also demonstrate the value of analyzing historical market prices to reassess the often tacitly held views and opinions of large groups of people in the past.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' People spend a lot of time commuting and often find it a burden. According to standard economics, the burden of commuting is chosen when compensated either on the labor or on the housing market so that individuals\' utility is equalized. However, in a direct test of this strong notion of equilibrium with panel data, we find that people with longer commuting time report systematically lower subjective well-being. This result is robust with regard to a number of alternative explanations. We mention several possibilities of an extended model of human behavior able to explain this "commuting paradox". Copyright \xef\xbf\xbd The editors of the "Scandinavian Journal of Economics" 2008 .'] ["The self-employed are substantially more satisfied with their work than employed persons. We document this relationship for 23 countries and show that the higher job satisfaction can mainly be attributed to the more interesting jobs and to the greater autonomy that self-employed persons enjoy. 'Doing what you like to do' seems to provide non-pecuniary benefits from work suggesting the existence of procedural utility: interesting work and autonomy are valued beyond material outcomes as good procedural work characteristics. The results hold for western European, North American and eastern European countries, but largely also for countries with a non-western cultural background."] [" One can be independent, or one can be subject to decisions made by others. This paper argues that this difference, embodied in the institutional distinction between the decision-making procedures 'market' and 'hierarchy', affects individual wellbeing beyond outcomes. Taking self-employment as an important case of independence, it is shown that the self-employed derive higher satisfaction from work than those employed in organizations, irrespective of income gained or hours worked. This is evidence for procedural utility: people value not only outcomes, but also the processes leading to outcomes. Copyright (c) The London School of Economics and Political Science 2007."] [' Deterrence has been a crucial element in fighting terrorism, both in politics and in rational choice analyses of terrorism. However, there are two strategies that are superior to deterrence. The first one is to make terrorist attacks less devastating and less attractive to terrorists through decentralisation. The second one is to raise the opportunity cost \xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x80\x9c rather than the material cost \xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x80\x9c for terrorists. These alternative strategies will effectively dissuade potential terrorists. It is here argued that they not only apply to society as a whole but can also usefully be applied by business enterprises.'] ['The paper studies a major human activity ? that of watching TV - where many individuals have incomplete control over, and foresight into, their own behavior. As a consequence, they watch more TV than they consider optimal for themselves and their well-being is lower than what could be achieved. Mainly people with significant opportunity costs of time regret the amount of time spent watching TV. They report lower subjective well-being when watching TV for many hours. For others, there is no negative effect on life satisfaction from watching TV. Long hours spent in front of a TV are linked to higher material aspirations and anxiety and therewith lower life satisfaction.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Why so many people pay their taxes, although fines and audit probability are low, has become a central question in the tax compliance literature. A homo economicus, with a more refined motivation structure, helps us to shed light on this puzzle. This paper provides empirical evidence for the relevance of conditional cooperation, using survey data from 30 West and East European countries. We find a high correlation between perceived tax evasion and tax morale. The results remain robust after exploiting endogeneity and conducting several robustness tests. We also observe a strong positive correlation between institutional quality and tax morale.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" Famous cultural monuments are often regarded as unique icons, making them an attractive target for terrorists. Despite huge military and police outlays, terrorist attacks on important monuments can hardly be avoided. We argue that an effective strategy to discourage terrorist attacks on iconic monuments is for a government to show a firm commitment to swift reconstruction. Using a simple game-theoretic model, we demonstrate how a credible claim to rebuild any destroyed cultural monument discourages terrorist attacks by altering the terrorists' expectations and by increasing the government's reputation costs if they fail to rebuild."] [' In the sciences the outside evaluation of past performances of universities, faculties, departments, research groups and of individuals has become more and more frequent, nearly incessant. It could be said that the sciences are afflicted with "Evaluitis", a creeping and widespread illness. Besides the obvious costs that arise for those being evaluated and for those doing the evaluation there are additional costs that weigh heavily but are usually disregarded: incentives are distorted systematically and ossification is promoted. Furthermore, the whole decision approach is wrongly conceived. For these reasons there are too many and too thorough evaluations. A useful alternative is an appropriate design of institutions guiding incentives and a careful selection of persons - who thereafter should be free to pursue their tasks. Copyright 2007 die Autoren Journal compilation 2007, Verein f\xc3\xbcr Socialpolitik und Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] ['It has often been pointed out in the literature that a symbiotic relationship exists between terrorist groups and the media. As yet, however, no formal model has been built based on this issue and only very little empirical research has been done in this field. The present contribution builds a simple game theoretic model, focussing on the social interactions between terrorists and the media. The model has features of a common-interest-game and results in multiple equilibria. After a discussion of the policy implications of the model, an empirical analysis is performed. Using newspaper coverage, terror incidents and terror fatalities data, it is shown that media attention and terrorism do mutually Granger cause each other, as predicted by the model. Moreover, it is explained why terror attacks tend to be \xe2\x80\x9cbloodier\xe2\x80\x9d in developing countries than in Europe and the United States.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" The trends and consequences of terrorist activities are often captured by counting the number of incidents and casualties. More recently, the effects of terrorist acts on various aspects of the economy have been analyzed. These costs are surveyed and put in perspective. As economic consequences are only a part of the overall costs of terrorism, possible approaches for estimating the utility losses of the people affected are discussed. Results using the life satisfaction approach, in which individual utility is approximated by self-reported subjective well-being, suggest that people's utility losses may far exceed the purely economic consequences. Copyright 2007 The Author Journal compilation \xef\xbf\xbd 2007 Blackwell Publishing Ltd."] [' This article presents the results of a survey among the members of the "Verein f\xc3\xbcr Socialpolitik", the association of German speaking economists, containing questions on schools of thought, economic role models and policy issues. A probit analysis is used to identify to what extent ideological preferences or personal facts determine the respondent\'s opinion. Some of the questions were already asked a quarter of a century ago so that it is possible to track the changes in view among economists. One of the most important findings is that neoclassical economics has become more strongly accepted. Copyright 2007 die Autoren Journal compilation 2007, Verein f\xc3\xbcr Socialpolitik und Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] [' The standard principal agent model considers monetary incentives only. It is assumed that money is more efficient than other forms of material, non-monetary compensation. Awards in the form of titles, orders, medals and honors (prizes)- though almost omnipresent - have so far escaped the attention of economists. They present extrinsic, non-monetary incentives that operate through the innate desire of human beings for recognition and status. In this article, we analyse the differences between monetary incentives and awards: in general, awards are cheap, lead to interpersonal relationships, are not directly related to performance and have a signalling value. In addition, they support intrinsic motivation, may increase social welfare and are exempt from taxation. Awards present an important additional instrument to be considered in principal agent theory. In many contexts they are superior to monetary compensation. Copyright Verein f\xc3\xbcr Socialpolitik und Blackwell Publishers Ltd, 2006'] ['World governance today is characterized by international organizations lacking democratic legitimacy and control by the citizens they claim to represent. They are also criticized for being inefficient. This leads to violent protests and to NGOs having great influence. To address these problems, we propose international governance based on the democratic idea of citizen participation: All citizens of the member countries of international organizations have the potential right to participate in the decision-making of international organizations via initiatives, referendums and recalls. In order to reduce transaction costs, a representative group of citizens is randomly selected who can actually exercise their participation rights.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Bruno Frey argues that terrorism has been fought in the wrong way. Instead of focusing on deterrence and preemptive strikes, we should: (1) Reduce vulnerability by decentralizing society; (2) Strengthen positive incentives to leave the terrorist camp; and (3) Divert media attention from terrorist groups.'] ["This paper analyzes the causal relationships between marriage and subjective well-being in a longitudinal data set spanning 17 years. We find evidence that more happy singles opt more likely for marriage and that there are large differences in the benefits from marriage between couples. Potential, as well as actual, division of labor seems to contribute to spouses' well-being, especially for women and when there is a young family to raise. In contrast, large differences in the partners' educational level have a negative effect on experienced life satisfaction.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The most influential approach of corporate governance, the view of shareholders\xe2\x80\x99 supremacy does not take into consideration that the key task of modern corporations is to generate and transfer firm-specific knowledge. It proposes that, in order to overcome the widespread corporate scandals, the interests of top management and directors should be increasingly aligned to shareholder\xe2\x80\x99 interests by making the board more responsible to shareholders, and monitoring of top management by independent outside directors should be strengthened. Corporate governance reform needs to go in another direction altogether. Firm-specific knowledge investments are, like financial investments, not ex ante contractible, leaving investors open to exploitation by shareholders. Employees therefore refuse to make firm-specific investments. To gain a sustainable competitive advantage, there must be an incentive to undertake such firm-specific investments. Three proposals are advanced to deal with this dilemma: (1) The board should rely more on insiders. (2) The insiders should be elected by those employees of the firm who are making firm-specific knowledge investments. (3) The board should be chaired by a neutral person. These proposals have major advantages: they provide incentives for knowledge investors; they countervail the dominance of executives; they encourage intrinsic work motivation and loyalty to the firm by strengthening distributive and procedural justice, and they ensure diversity on the board while lowering transaction costs. These proposals for reforming the board may help to overcome the crisis corporate governance is in. At the same time, they provide a step in the direction of a more adequate theory of the firm as a basis for corporate governance. Copyright Springer 2006'] [' Corporate governance is importantly based on agency theory and relies on extrinsic incentives to align the interests of managers, employees and shareholders. This article argues that in view of recent corporate scandals, private governance can learn from public governance: (1) Goal-oriented intrinsic motivation of agents should be supported by fixed incomes and an extensive selection process of employees; (2) Extrinsic, but non-monetary incentives (e.g. conferring orders and titles) can be used; (3) The power of actors should be restricted by a clear division of power, appropriate rules of succession and institutionalised competition for positions in firms. Copyright 2005 Royal Economic Society.'] ['Many people believe that economists in general are more selfish than other people and that this greater selfishness is due to economics education. This paper offers empirical evidence against this widely held belief. Using a unique data set on giving behaviour in connection with two social funds at the University of Zurich, it is shown that economics education does not make people act more selfishly. Rather, this natural experiment suggests that the particular behaviour of economists can be explained by a selection effect.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper intends to provide an evaluation of where the economic research on happiness stands and in which interesting directions it might develop. First, the current state of the research on happiness in economics is briefly discussed. We emphasize the potential of happiness research in testing competing theories of individual behavior. Second, the crucial issue of causality is taken up illustrating it for a particular case, namely whether marriage makes people happy or whether happy people get married. Third, happiness research is taken up as a new approach to measuring utility in the context of cost-benefit analysis.'] [" People not only obtain utility from actual outcomes but also from the conditions which lead to these outcomes. The paper proposes an economic concept of this notion of procedural utility. Preferences beyond outcome can be manifold. We distinguish procedural utility people get from institutions as such, i.e., from how allocative and redistributive decisions are taken, procedural utility from activities towards which people have an intrinsic attitude and procedural utility from the way being treated in interaction with other people. In an empirical application, it is studied whether people gain procedural utility from participating in the political decision-making process itself, irrespective of the outcome. Utility is measured by individuals' reported subjective well-being. We find that participation rights provide procedural utility in terms of a feeling of self-determination and influence. In contrast, actual participation and use of participation rights does not. Copyright 2005, Oxford University Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Distortions in memory impose important bounds on rationality but have been largely disregarded in economics. While it is possible to learn, it is more difficult, and sometimes impossible, to unlearn. This retention effect lowers individual utility directly or via reduced productivity, and adds costs to principal-agent relationships. The imprinting effect states that the more one tries to forget a piece of information the more vivid it stays in memory, leading to a paradoxical outcome. The effects are based on, and are supported by, psychological experiments, and it is shown that they are relevant in many economic situations and beyond.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["A federal, i.e. decentralized, state is superior to a centralized one because it fulfills the preferences of the citizens more effectively. However, it is also faced with major problems. Therefore, a new kind of democratic federalism for Europe is proposed which maintains the great advantages of federalism but which overcomes its most important weaknesses. Functional, overlapping, and competing jurisdictions (FOCJ) emerge in response to the 'geography of problems'. This concept suggests that prospective new member countries of the European Union should have the possibility of partially entering the EU with respect to functions where they expect positive net benefits."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['People behave pro-socially in a wide variety of situations that standard economic theory is unable to explain. Social comparison is one explanation for such pro-social behavior: people contribute if others contribute or cooperate as well. This paper tests social comparison in a field experiment at the University of Zurich. Each semester every single student has to decide whether he or she wants to contribute to two Social Funds. We provided 2500 randomly selected students with information about the average behavior of the student population. Some received the information that a high percentage of the student population contributed, while others received the information that a relatively low percentage contributed. The results show that people behave pro-socially, conditional on others. The more others cooperate, the more one is inclined to do so as well. The type of person is important. We are able to fix the \xe2\x80\x98types\xe2\x80\x99 by looking at revealed past behavior. Some persons seem to care more about the pro-social behavior of others, while other \xe2\x80\x98types\xe2\x80\x99 are not affected by the average behavior of the reference group.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['People not only care about outcomes; they also value the procedures that lead to the outcomes. Procedural utility is an important source of human well-being. This paper aims at introducing the concept of procedural utility into economics, and argues that it should be incorporated more widely into economic theory and empirical research. Three building blocks of a concept of procedural utility are outlined, and it is suggested how procedural utility can be fruitfully integrated. Evidence from a broad range of social sciences is reviewed in order to show that procedural utility is a relevant concept for economics.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Over the past few years, there has been a steadily increasing interest from economists in happiness research. This paper argues that reported subjective well-being is a satisfactory empirical approximation to individual utility and endeavors to provide an impression of this new, and challenging, development. We study data from the German Socio-Economic Panel to understand (i) the role of aspirations in the relationship between income and happiness better and (ii) the effect of unemployment on people\xe2\x80\x99s satisfaction with life. We discuss some of the consequences for economic policy and for economic theory.'] [' Business students are often portrayed as behaving too egoistically. The critics call for more social responsibility and good citizenship behavior by business students. We present evidence of pro-social behavior of business students. With a large panel data set for real-life behavior at the University of Zurich, two specific hypotheses are tested: do selfish students select into business studies or does the training in business studies negatively indoctrinate students? The evidence points to a selection effect. Business education does not seem to change the citizenship behavior of business students.'] ['Im Dezember 2001 beschloss der Europ\xc3\xa4ische Rat von Laeken, einen \xc2\xbbKonvent zur Zukunft Europas\xc2\xab einzuberufen. Er erhielt den Auftrag, die Vereinfachung und Reorganisation der Vertr\xc3\xa4ge zu pr\xc3\xbcfen und eine Europ\xc3\xa4ische Verfassung vorzubereiten. Die Verfassung soll die EU f\xc3\xbcr das 21. Jahrhundert r\xc3\xbcsten, insbesondere muss sie auch den Bed\xc3\xbcrfnissen der vielen neuen Mitglieder Rechnung tragen. Nach Ansicht von Prof. Dr. Bruno S. Frey, Institut f\xc3\xbcr Empirische Wirtschaftsforschung der Universit\xc3\xa4t Z\xc3\xbcrich, enthalten die bisher vorliegenden Verfassungsentw\xc3\xbcrfe kaum irgendwelche innovative Elemente. Nach wie vor st\xc3\xbcnden die Nationalstaaten im Zentrum. \xc2\xbbEine in die Zukunft orientierte Europ\xc3\xa4ische Verfassung sollte ... gen\xc3\xbcgend Flexibilit\xc3\xa4t f\xc3\xbcr die Entstehung neuer staatlicher Ordnungen aufweisen und nicht einfach die heute bestehenden Einheiten zementieren.\xc2\xab Prof. Dr. Charles B. Blankart, Humboldt Universit\xc3\xa4t zu Berlin, und Prof. Dr. Dennis C. Mueller, Universit\xc3\xa4t Wien, bezeichnen \xc2\xbbdie derzeitigen Entscheidungsstrukturen mit Rat und Parlament als konkurrierenden Organen\xc2\xab als unklar und widerspr\xc3\xbcchlich. Die zun\xc3\xa4chst notwendige Entscheidung in Richtung Staatenbund oder Bundesstaat sei bei der Zusammensetzung des Konvents aber kaum zu erwarten. Klaus H\xc3\xa4nsch, MdEP, der Mitglied des Pr\xc3\xa4sidiums des Konvents zur Zukunft Europas ist und die Arbeitsgruppe \xc2\xbbEconomic governance\xc2\xab leitet, betont dagegen, der Konvent habe den Auftrag, die Union demokratischer, transparenter und effizienter zu machen. Er ziele nicht darauf ab, die Politiken der Union neu zu definieren oder zu \xc3\xa4ndern.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['States are ill equipped to meet the challenges of a globalized world. The concept of citizenship with its rights and obligations, including the allegiance owed, is too narrowly defined to exist only between individuals and a state. Today, people identify with, and pay allegiance to, many organizations beyond the state. This article suggests that citizenship could be extended further and be possible between individuals and quasi-governmental organizations, as well as non-governmental organizations, such as churches, clubs, interest groups, functional organizations and profit firms. Due to the larger set of types of citizenship individuals could choose from, their preferences would be better fulfilled and, due to the competition for citizens induced among organizations, the efficiency of public activity would be raised.'] [' Most professional economists believe that economists in general are more selfish than other people and that this increased selfishness is due to economics education. This article offers empirical evidence against this widely held belief. Using a unique data set about giving behavior in connection with two social funds at the University of Zurich, it is shown that economics education does not make people act more selfishly. Rather, this natural experiment suggests that the particular behavior of economists can be explained by a selection effect. (JEL A13, A20, H41) Copyright 2003, Oxford University Press.'] [' Survival in academia depends on publications in refereed journals. Authors only get their papers accepted if they intellectually prostitute themselves by slavishly following the demands made by anonymous referees who have no property rights to the journals they advise. Intellectual prostitution is neither beneficial to suppliers nor consumers. But it is avoidable. The editor (with property rights to the journal) should make the basic decision of whether a paper is worth publishing or not. The referees should only offer suggestions for improvement. The author may disregard this advice. This reduces intellectual prostitution and produces more original publications. Copyright 2003 by Kluwer Academic Publishers'] [' Tax compliance has been studied in economics by analysing the individual decision of a representative person between paying and evading taxes. A neglected aspect of tax compliance is the interaction of taxpayers and tax authorities. The relationship between the two actors can be understood as an implicit or \xe2\x80\x9cpsychological\xe2\x80\x9d contract. Studies on tax evasion in Switzerland show that the more strongly the political participation rights are developed, the more important this contract is, and the higher tax morale is. In this paper, empirical evidence based on a survey of tax authorities of the 26 Swiss states (cantons) is presented, indicating that the differences in the treatment of taxpayers by tax authorities can be explained by differences in political participation rights as well. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2002'] [' This paper discusses the impact of the dynamics of motivation on new organizational forms that are suited to forge value-creating knowledge transfers in teams and between organizational units and functions. Our aim is to develop the management of motivation as a source of distinctive firm competences. We argue that motivation is an endogenous variable and introduce it as a crucial link into the theory of the firm. Balancing intrinsic and extrinsic motivation helps to overcome social dilemmas in firms that are not solvable by hierarchical authority. Integrating the dynamics of motivation is a step to a more comprehensive theory of organization. It links organizational economics to the knowledge-based perspective.'] ['Economists have long considered themselves fortunate that micro-economic theory needs only be based on relative utility, as it is widely believed that utility is not measurable in absolute terms. But this view is no longer valid. The measurement of happiness constitutes a good approximation to utility. It is shown that research on happiness provides new evidence on important issues of economic theory and policy. In particular, it is shown how unemployment, income and inflation affect self-reported subjective well-being. The results are partly in line with accepted economics but partly throw doubt on it. Institutions, such as the type of democracy and the extent of political decentralisation, also systematically affect individual happiness.'] [' The paper presents a model of the entrepreneur as an undertaker of new combinations of ideas. Technology is seen as a set of ideas in a metric technology space where new knowledge is created by the combination of older ideas in the spirit of Schumpeter (1934), Weitzman (1998) and Olsson (2000). Given some intuitive assumptions, we demonstrate that technological progress generated by the convex combination of ideas is constrained by five factors. First, the combinatory process eventually leads to the exhaustion of technological opportunity. Second, the cost of combining ideas increases with the technological distance between the originating ideas. Third, profits are maximized when ideas are combined that are technologically close. Fourth, the technology set is constrained by a social possibility set of socially acceptable ideas. Fifth, the boundaries implied by the ruling technological paradigm limit the scope for eternal recombinant growth. Copyright 2002 by Kluwer Academic Publishers'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Globalization is often seen to result in a smaller (Lilliput) or larger (Leviathan) state. But future public activity will be more flexible. People have multiple identities. They can be citizens of sub- and supra-national jurisdictions, semi- and non-governmental organizations and private units, even profit-oriented firms. Such attachment may be temporary, multiple or partial. To actively choose strengthens loyalty and identification, which raises the willingness to pay for publicly supplied services (in the sense of quasi-voluntary taxation). On the supply side, Functional, Overlapping and Competing Jurisdictions (FOCJ) will develop. Such flexibility of future European integration will make it successful. Copyright Verein f\xc3\xbcr Socialpolitik und Blackwell Publishers Ltd 2002'] ['This paper advances two propositions, one concerning content, the other concerning research strategy. (1) The advent of wide-spread internet publishing reduces the stifling impact of the refereeing process on the papers accepted and submitted to journals. Economics scholars are less bound to devoting a large part of their time and effort on formalisms. They have more leeway to concentrate on matters of content. This greater freedom also improves the chances of the advice and suggestions proposed by economic methodologists being put into practice. (2) Economic methodology is only able to influence the practice of economics if it takes into account the incentives to which scholars are subjected when they want to pursue an academic career and become prominent. Incentives are transmitted by institutions; it is therefore necessary for economic methodology to analyse how institutions work and how they may change in the future. An attempt has been made here to look at the publication process in economics, and the impact the internet might have on the incentives to write and to do research.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" Globalization creates a new dynamic geography of political problems, which is incompatible with the rigid boundaries of established democratic structures. We discuss this conflict within a behavioral framework which incorporates individuals' civic virtue and suggest ways to overcome it. We advance three new types of flexible democratic governance. The first proposal extends the concept of citizenship to institutions beyond states in order to provide a sense of belonging and to therewith bolster civic virtue. The second and third proposals allow for jurisdictions to adjust to the geography of problems as well as the international exchange of politicians. Copyright 2002 by WWZ and Helbing &amp; Lichtenhahn Verlag AG"] ['In recent years, there has been a steadily increasing interest on the part of economists in happiness research. We argue that reported subjective well-being is a satisfactory empirical approximation to individual utility and that happiness research is able to contribute important insights for economics. We report how the economic variables income, unemployment and inflation affect happiness as well as how institutional factors, in particular the type of democracy and the extent of government decentralization, systematically influence how satisfied individuals are with their life. We discuss some of the consequences for economic policy and for economic theory.'] [' The Motivation Crowding Effect suggests that external intervention via monetary incentives or punishments may undermine, and under different identifiable conditions strengthen, intrinsic motivation. As of today, the theoretical possibility of motivation crowding has been the main subject of discussion among economists. This study demonstrates that the effect is also of empirical relevance. There exist a large number of studies, offering empirical evidence in support of the existence of crowding-out and crowding-in. The study is based on circumstantial evidence, laboratory studies by both psychologists and economists, as well as field research by econometric studies. The pieces of evidence presented refer to a wide variety of areas of the economy and society and have been collected for many different countries and periods of time. Crowding effects thus are an empirically relevant phenomenon, which can, in specific cases, even dominate the traditional relative price effect. Copyright 2001 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd'] ['This short paper investigates the impact of Swiss economists by analyzing the citations collected in the Social Sciences Citation Index. It comes as no big surprise that the Anglo- Saxon countries dominate modern economics with respect to the absolute number of eminent, most frequently cited economists. However, data, which are standardized according to differences in population size and economic potential, reveal that Switzerland - compared to the other Continental European countries - exhibits a very high density of eminent economists.'] ['We normally take it for granted that a government or state has its corresponding territory. This paper shows that government need not have a territorial monopoly. The paper advances a practical constitutional proposal, based on the notion that there are meaningful government units, whose major characteristic is not the territorial extension of government but its function. The proposal allows for the emergence of governmental organisations, called functional, overlapping, competing jurisdictions (FOCJs). Their territory is variable, and they do not have a territorial monopoly over it. Rather, they are in competition with each other. (JEL: H 11, H 4, H 5)'] ['The "Motivation Crowding Effect" suggests that an external intervention via monetary incentives or punishments may undermine (or under different identifiable conditions strengthen) intrinsic motivation. "Crowding-out" and "crowding-in" are empirically relevant phenomena, which can, in specific cases, even dominate the traditional relative price effect. "Crowding effects" may also spread beyond the area and persons initially subject to "crowding-out" and "crowding-in". The paper discusses the conditions under which such a "Motivation Transfer Effect" may obtain.'] [' Based on survey data for Switzerland, new empirical findings on direct democracy are presented. In the first part, the authors show that, on average, public employees receive lower financial compensation under more direct democratic institutions. However, top bureaucrats are more constrained in direct democracies and have to be compensated by higher wages for that loss of power. In the second part, they demonstrate that reported subjective well-being of the population is much higher in jurisdictions with stronger direct democratic rights. This is not only the case because people value political outcomes higher but also because they derive utility from the political process itself. Copyright 2001 by Kluwer Academic Publishers'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Historical events are reflected in asset prices. Based on a unique data-set, we analyse government bond prices of Germany and Austria traded on the Swiss bourse during the Second World War. Some war events generally considered crucial are clearly reflected in government bond prices; this holds, in particular, for the official outbreak of the war and the loss and gain of national sovereignty. Other events to which historians attach great importance are not reflected in bond prices, most prominently Germany's capitulation in 1945. The analysis of financial markets provides a fruitful method for evaluating the importance contemporaries attached to historical events. Copyright 2001 by The London School of Economics and Political Science"] ['Historical events are reflected in asset prices. Looking at government bond prices of five European countries traded on the Swiss stock exchange during WWII provides a useful way of interpreting the importance attributed to various war events. We direct our attention to value changes in government bonds of five different nations: On the side of the Axis, Germany and Austria; on the side of the Allies, France; and the two neutral countries Belgium and Switzerland. The econometric analysis reveals that some events that are generally considered crucial are clearly reflected in government bond prices of the countries considered. This holds, in particular, for the official outbreak of the war in July to September 1939 (which sent down the government bond values not only of Austria, Belgium and France but also of Germany) and for losses and gains of national sovereignty. When Austria lost its independence and became part of "Grossdeutschland" the value of its government bonds fell by 46%. When it regained its nationhood in the Potsdam Conference Austria\'s government bonds rose by 12%. Similarly, when Belgium and France were defeated and occupied by the German forces in the "Blitzkrieg" of May 1940, the government bond values fell by not less than 35% and 31%, respectively. On the other hand, some events to which historians attach great attention are not reflected in bond prices at all: The most prominent example is the German capitulation in 1945. The analysis of financial markets is certainly no substitute to the traditional inquiries undertaken by historians. But it is a challenging complementary method to evaluate particular sentiments existing at a given moment of time.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['At present, new EU-members have to fully accept the "acquis communautaire" even if their economic and institutional development differs drastically from the EU-average. In contrast, we propose that there should be the possibility of partial entry into the EU. East European Countries should have the option of specifically entering with respect to functions where they expect positive net benefits. In order to enable such partial entry, a new type of jurisdictions called FOCJ (Functional, Overlapping and Competing Jurisdictions) is proposed between the EU, the CEECs, and beyond. Such FOCJ allow for partial integration based on economic efficiency and democratic rules.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Due to its formality and highly analytic thinking, economics is often attributed a leading role among the social sciences and a prominent position as contributor to economic or social issues in the real world. Fact is, however, that the empirical proof for such a claim is either missing or anecdotal. Copyright Verein f\xc3\xbc Socialpolitik und Blackwell Publishers Ltd 2000'] [" Institutional factors in the form of direct democracy (via initiatives and referenda) and federal structure (local autonomy) systematically and sizeably raise self-reported individual well-being in a cross-regional econometric analysis. This positive effect can be attributed to political outcomes closer to voters' preferences, as well as to the procedural utility of political participation possibilities. Moreover, the results of previous microeconometric well-being functions for other countries are generally supported. Unemployment has a strongly depressing effect on happiness. A higher income level raises happiness, however, only to a small extent."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The measurement of individual happiness challenges the notion that revealed preferences only reliably and empirically reflect individual utility. Reported subjective well-being is a broader concept than traditional decision utility; it also includes concepts like experience and procedural utility. Micro- and macroeconometric happiness functions offer new insights on determinants of life satisfaction. However, one should not leap to the conclusion that happiness should be maximized, as was suggested for social welfare function maximization. In contrast, happiness research strengthens the validity of an institutional approach, such as reflected in the theory of democratic economic policy. Copyright Verein f\xc3\xbc Socialpolitik and Blackwell Publishers Ltd 2000.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Cet article pr\xc3\xa9sente une analyse statistique de la position des \xc3\xa9conomistes fran\xc3\xa7ais et des sp\xc3\xa9cialistes fran\xc3\xa7ais des sciences de gestion parmi les chercheurs europ\xc3\xa9ens de haut rang. La preuve empirique r\xc3\xa9v\xc3\xa8le que la France ne d\xc3\xa9veloppe pas fortement ses ressources humaines sur la sc\xc3\xa8ne internationale. La position de la France en Europe, rep\xc3\xa9r\xc3\xa9e par les citations (pour les \xc3\xa9conomistes) et les nominations par les pairs (pour les sp\xc3\xa9cialistes des sciences de gestion) des chercheurs de haut rang et normalis\xc3\xa9e par la taille de la population, est seulement au neuvi\xc3\xa8me rang en ce qui concerne les sciences \xc3\xa9conomiques et au huiti\xc3\xa8me rang pour les sciences de gestion. Cela laisse penser que la politique scientifique a encore beaucoup \xc3\xa0 faire pour am\xc3\xa9liorer la situation.This note provides a statistical analysis of the position of French economists and French management scientists among the leading European scholars. The evidence shows that France does not strongly develop its human resources in the international setting. France\xc2\x92s position in Europe based on citations (for economists) and peer nominations (for management scientists) of the leading scholars normalized by the size of the population is only rank 9 with respect to economics, and rank 8 with respect to management science. This suggests that there is considerable scope for science policy to improve this situation.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Neglected aspects of state support for the arts are discussed through posing two questions. First, \xe2\x80\x9cWhat kind of state is providing that support?\xe2\x80\x9d The extent and type of public support and its effects on the arts crucially depends on whether the state is centralised or decentralised, and on whether it is authoritarian or democratic. Second, \xe2\x80\x9cHow is artistic creativity fostered?\xe2\x80\x9d \xe2\x80\x9dInstitutional creativity\xe2\x80\x9d is best supported by attributing a large role to the market and market-like institutions. \xe2\x80\x9cPersonal creativity\xe2\x80\x9d hinges on intrinsic motivation, which may be crowded out by different types of public support. Important consequences for the public support of the arts follow. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 1999'] ['Historische Ereignisse spiegeln sich in Preisver\xc3\xa4nderungen auf Finanzm\xc3\xa4rkten. Dieses Papier untersucht die deutsche Kriegsgeschichte w\xc3\xa4hrend des zweiten Weltkriegs anhand der Preisentwicklung der in der Schweiz gehandelten deutschen Staatsanleihen. Die Resultate unserer empirischen Analyse lassen den Schluss zu, dass der Kapitalmarkt die historischen Abl\xc3\xa4ufe realit\xc3\xa4tsnah interpretiert. So haben trotz ausgepr\xc3\xa4gter Propaganda fast alle Kriegsereignisse einen signifikant negativen Einfluss auf die deutschen Staatspapiere. Insbesondere der offizielle Kriegsausbruch, der Kriegseintritt der USA sowie die russische Offensive bei Stalingrad haben sich negativ f\xc3\xbcr Deutschland ausgewirkt. Auf der anderen Seite schlagen sich einige Ereignisse in der Anleihepreisen nieder, die von Historikern gemeinhin als nicht entscheidend erachtet werden; Beispiele w\xc3\xa4ren die Olympischen Spiele in Berlin oder die Konferenz von Yalta. Schliesslich \xc3\xa4ussern sich gemeinhin als wichtig erachtete Ereignisse nicht in ver\xc3\xa4nderten Anleihepreisen. Prominentestes Beispiel hief\xc3\xbcr ist die offizielle Kapitulation der Deutschen Wehrmacht im Mai 1945. Verschiedene Resultate stehen im Gegensatz zu den Erkenntnissen f\xc3\xbchrender Historiker; so sehen die Kapitalm\xc3\xa4rkte z.B. den faktischen Kriegsbeginn schon in der Invasion der Resttschechoslowakei bzw. das faktische Kriegsende in der Konferenz von Yalta. Unsere Resultate legen nahe, dass die Finanzmarktanalyse neue Einsichten liefern kann. Der neue Ansatz eignet sich somit als Erg\xc3\xa4nzung zur bestehenden historischen Forschung, soll diese aber keineswegs ersetzen.'] ['The econometric analysis of government bonds prices reveals new historical insights and can therefore support the research activities of historians. In his comments on our article "Krieg und Finanzmarkt", which deals with this topic, JEAN-CHRISTIAN LAMBELET raises many important points. Our reply adopts and discusses some of these points critically. Our main focus, however, is JEAN-CHRISTIAN LAMBELET\'s criticism that common threats cannot be traced with our methodology. Therefore, we present new econometric estimations, which analyze the threats common to all bonds traded in Switzerland. Important historical events that constitute common threats are e. g. the beginning of World War II, the war entry of the United States or the Russian offensive at Stalingrad. On the other hand, the perceived common risk decreased due to the invasion of the Allied forces in the Normandy or the German capitulation in 1945. Under these altered specifications, too, the analysis of financial markets can offer non-trivial insights concerning historical events.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["The measurement of preferences is an ongoing challenge for economists. New insights can be won by relying on reported subjective well-being in addition to observed behaviour. Empirical estimates of well-being functions, based on a sample of 5500 Swiss residents, find that unemployed persons are much unhappier than employed ones. Differences in life satisfaction between income classes are quite small and improvements in financial situation hardly raise happiness. Moreover, well-being functions are valuable in revealing the utility derived from constitutional conditions. Our econometric estimates suggest that more extended citizens' participation possibilities in the democratic process tend to raise subjective well-being."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Strong empirical evidence suggests that, contrary to standard criminal choice theory, deterrence does not increase tax compliance. A model based on a peculiarity of the mixed-strategy Nash equilibrium in 2-by-2 games is used to explain this observation theoretically: The strategy choice of a player is not affected by the changes in his or her payoffs induced by deterrence. Moreover, as empirical observations show that increased deterrence tends to undermine tax morale under relevant conditions, it follows that tax policy should not so much try to deter but should make an effort to maintain and raise citizens' tax morale."] [" Superstar museums are characterized by (1) great prominence among tourists and world fame among the general population; (2) a large number of visitors; (3) a collection of generally known painters and individual paintings; (4) an exceptional architecture; and (5) a large role of commercialization, including a substantial impact on the local economy. The superstar phenomenon is caused by factors both on the demand and the supply side of the market. Superstar museums are forced to offer \xe2\x80\x9ctotal experience\xe2\x80\x9d to the visitors; they have to relate to events in history, technology, politics, films and TV, and they have to provide for everything from education, food, gifts, shopping to entertainment. The development of superstar status strongly affects museum policy. The strategic orientation emphasizes visitors' demands; the organization has to be decentralized into processes each devoted to particular segments of visitors, to special exhibitions or support activities. There are also major consequences for human resource management, in particular, relating to flexibility and staff composition of paid employees and volunteers. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 1998"] ['Historical events are reflected in asset prices. In this paper we therefore analyze the prices of Swiss government bonds traded during WWII. The econometric analysis reveals that some events that are generally considered crucial for the military threat Switzerland faced, are clearly reflected in government bond prices. This holds, in particular, for events that occured before the official outbreak of the war. The most prominent examples are the Nazi takeover in Januray 1933 or the introduction of the draft for military service in March 1935. On the other hand, some events to which historians attach great attention are not reflected in bond prices at all: The most prominent example is the German capitulation in 1945. The analysis of financial markets is certainly no substitute to the traditional inquiries undertaken by historians. But it is a challenging complementaiy method to evaluate particular sentiments existing at a given moment of time.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The price system is generally thought to be the epitome of efficiency. In some cases, however, lotteries are preferred to the market as a social decision-making system for reasons of fairness. As recent research has shown, neither procedure is always well accepted among the general population. The authors analyze the social acceptability of both mechanisms and apply their framework to the allocation of social burdens, namely the sighting of nuclear waste facilities. Lotteries are only acceptable if they are applied to a set of efficient options. The market is accepted if the production of fairness precedes the use of prices. Copyright 1997 by Kluwer Academic Publishers'] ['Crowding-Theory introduces a new psychological effect into economics. Under identifiable conditions, a higher price or stricter regulation reduces the intrinsic motivation to perform a task. Crowding-Out is the only effect which systematically works in the opposite direction to the Relative Price Effect. Crowding-Out Theory is empirically applied to two issues in Switzerland: (1) The support for siting a nuclear waste repository strongly fell when the population was offered a compensation for hosting it. (2) The possibility of direct participation in politics via referenda tends to raise civic virtue, and (ceteris paribus) tax compliance (Crowding-In Effect).'] [' When discussing constitutional design, economists concentrate on the propensity of individuals to free ride. Preventing opportunistic behavior by knaves has costs by crowding out civic virtue. Another view emphasizes active citizen participation in order to bolster civic virtue. A viable constitution must therefore be strict enough to deter exploitative behavior. At the same time, the constitution should fundamentally convey trust towards its citizens and politicians. Distrusting public laws risk destroying the positive attitude of citizens and politicians towards the state. Civic virtue can be maintained and fostered by direct citizen participation via popular referenda and initiatives. Copyright 1997 by Royal Economic Society.'] [" There is no necessary link between drug consumption, addiction and social disintegration. Empirical evidence suggests that a considerable share of the population has consumed illegal drugs during some period of their lives. A substantial proportion of drug users have a job and home. Many 'mature out' of drug consumption in their thirties. Most drug users are normal consumers responding systematically to relative prices. Copyright Centre for Economic Policy Research, Centre for Economic Studies, Maison des Sciences de l'Homme 1997."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper endeavors to take up the neglected aspects of federalism and direct democracy. It emphasizes the mutual dependence of the two for reaching the goals of efficiency and trust. Direct democracy is seen to preserve federalism, but even more importantly, federalism is taken to enable and to preserve effective direct democracy. Empirical evidence is adduced showing in particular that direct democracy leads to higher efficiency in the sense of lowering transaction costs. A proposal for a novel combination of federalism and direct democracy\xe2\x80\x94which is called FOCJ (the acronym for \xe2\x80\x9cFunctional Overlapping Competing Jurisdictions\xe2\x80\x9d)\xe2\x80\x94is suggested for Europe. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 1996'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This article analyzes the reasons why individuals oppose the siting of nuclear waste repositories close to their hometowns. In a simple model based on survey data, we show that the willingness to accept such facilities largely depends on economic criteria, namely expected economic impacts and risk estimates. However, the predictive power of such a model is improved by focusing not only on the consequences-as economic models typically do-but also on the procedural aspects. We show that acceptable siting rules contribute positively to the willingness of local residents to host a noxious facility. Acceptable rules, it is found, are essentially fair rules.'] [" Local opposition to many projects makes it increasingly difficult to find sites for socially desirable facilities. As has been widely documented, compensation for local disamenities does not increase the level of support. An empirical analysis of the Swiss search for a nuclear waste repository even reveals decreased acceptance due to the rejection of bribes and the crowding-out of public spirit. However, a 'compensation cycle' may be exploited to finally win the support of host communities. As siting issues are decided in the realm of politics, an economic theory of compensation must focus on the interplay between morals and markets. Copyright 1996 by University of Chicago Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper deals with the question how to locate generally beneficial, but locally harmful facilities in accordance with citizens' procedural preferences. The analysis of survey data collected among people potentially affected by such siting decisions shows that aspects of procedural fairness matter most when finding a site for a locally unwanted disamenity. Procedures including elements of auctions turn out to be unpopular, whereas granting authority to the affected community is approved by a large majority."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The behavior of art museums is studied by applying economic thinking to culture. Art museums keep a substantial share of their holdings in storage rooms and act in a little enterprising way. It is analyzed why the stock rarely or never displayed is not sold and the proceeds used to buy more suitable paintings, or for restoration, extending showroom capacity and visiting hours, or improving fire and security precautions. It is suggested that giving museum directorates the necessary incentives and independence to employ the resources at their disposition more freely would greatly improve the situation. Copyright 1994 by Scottish Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This report investigates the endogenous effects of the implementation of stabilization programmes (credits and different variants of conditionalities) in developing countries. A model is outlined, which at the same time builds on Modern Political Economy and New Institutional Economy and incorporates cognitive (psychological) aspects in decision making. Emphasizing the demand and supply of support for the government by the various interest groups and the population, this model helps to explain not only the programmes' effects on the standard of living, but also on the use of instruments by the groups involved. Especially, effects on the politicians' own consumption, the extent of corruption by bribery and the suppression of the population and particular groups are analysed. Conditions under which the economic and/or the political situations improve for the population are identified and corresponding testable propositions are formulated ... Ce rapport examine les effets endog\xc3\xa8nes de la mise en \xc5\x93uvre dans les pays en d\xc3\xa9veloppement de programmes de stabilisation (cr\xc3\xa9dits et diff\xc3\xa9rentes formes de conditionalit\xc3\xa9). Un mod\xc3\xa8le est \xc3\xa9bauch\xc3\xa9 \xc3\xa0 partir de l'\xc3\x89conomie politique moderne et de la Nouvelle \xc3\xa9conomie des institutions, tout en tenant compte des aspects cognitifs (psychologiques) du processus de prise de d\xc3\xa9cision. Mettant l'accent sur la demande et l'offre de soutien de la population et des divers groupes d'int\xc3\xa9r\xc3\xaat au gouvernement, ce mod\xc3\xa8le aide \xc3\xa0 expliquer non seulement les effets de tels programmes sur le niveau de vie, mais \xc3\xa9galement sur l'utilisation d'instruments par les groupes concern\xc3\xa9s. En particulier, sont analys\xc3\xa9s les effets sur la consommation des \xc3\xa9lites politiques, sur l'importance de la corruption, et sur les politiques r\xc3\xa9pressives \xc3\xa0 l'\xc3\xa9gard de la population et de certains groupes. Les conditions qui tendent \xc3\xa0 permettre une meilleure situation \xc3\xa9conomique et/ou politique pour la population sont identifi\xc3\xa9es ...<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [" Referenda and initiatives are hardly considered as democratic devices for a future Europe. Drawing on experimental evidence and empirical findings for Switzerland, the authors argue that direct democracy performs well for the provision of public goods and redistribution as it institutionalizes the political discussion. Communication induces the citizens to transform a public decision into a private choice and to break the politician's agenda-setting monopoly: relevant alternatives are no longer exogenously given but emerge in a process of deliberation. This process is needed in a European framework if social dilemmas and redistribution problems are to be solved according to the citizens' preferences. Copyright 1994 by WWZ and Helbing &amp; Lichtenhahn Verlag AG"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['America and Europe differ with regard to what economics is understood to be, how it is practiced, and how professional academic economists behave. Specifically, 1) American (U.S. and Canadian) economists contribute by far the largest share of journal publications and are cited much more often than European economists, while (West-) European economists consider other aspects of their professional activities more relevant, in particular participating in local and national affairs; 2) economic research by Americans tends to focus on abstract issues defined within the profession itself and involves fads, while the activities of European economists (though not necessarily their research) are more concerned with practical issues and follow a more steady course: and 3) American academics are geared to postgraduate teaching, while in Europe they are mostly engaged in undergraduate teaching. These differences can be explained by the different market conditions faced by American and European economists: in America, the academic market is much larger, and the degree of government intervention is typically much smaller. This paper explores how this leads to different focuses for European and American economists. In addition, it asks whether the ongoing economic unification in Europe may not alter these patterns.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Principal-agent theory suggests that tighter monitoring will raise an agent's work effort and will be applied provided that transaction costs are low. However, when a psychological contract exists between principals and agents, the agents perceive increased monitoring as an indication of distrust and this induces them to reduce work effort. This 'crowding out effect'is likely to dominate when the relationship between principals and agents is personal, while the 'disciplining effect'is likely to dominate when the relationship is abstract, as in a competitive market setting. Empirical evidence from neighboring sciences and from an econometric study supports this proposition. Copyright 1993 by Oxford University Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Effluent charges and tradeable permits are economically efficient but rarely used. A new explanation for this discrepancy is offered. Pricing may crowd out environmental ethics in the pricing, and via spillovers, also in non-pricing sectors. Pricing may therefore increase pollution, providing a reason why decision-makers tend to reject environmental pricing. Five propositions showing the conditions for counterproductive effects are advanced. They are consistent with available empirical evidence. Regulation by setting standards and subsidies damage environmental ethics less than pricing, because pollution is condoned. Damaging environmental ethics may prevent political action in favor of the environment. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 1992'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Beyond prices and regulations, a third motivation influences human behavior: intrinsic motivation. Under identifiable conditions, rational individuals replace their intrinsic by extrinsic motivation when prices and regulations are imposed from the outside ("crowding-out effect"). Conversely, policy instruments that acknowledge intrinsic motivation and extend actors\' self-determination "crowd-in" intrinsic motivation. Empirical studies support these psychological effects. Copyright 1992 by WWZ and Helbing &amp; Lichtenhahn Verlag AG'] [" Results in cognitive psychology and experimental economics indicate that under identifiable conditions individuals do not act in an economically rational way. These results are important for political economy. Anomalies appear in the behavior of voters, politicians, and administrators. Economic markets do not fully eliminate anomalies in the aggregation process. It is shown that political aggregation by democracy, bargaining, or bureaucracy may weaken or strengthen such individual anomalies. Moreover, institutions can partially be interpreted as endogenously emerging as a result of individuals' demands to cope with anomalies. Copyright 1991 by Kluwer Academic Publishers"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' There is an analogy of how the paradox of aggregation (Arrow impossibility theorem) and the paradoxa of individual behavior (people decide inconsistently) have been approached in mainstream research. In both cases it is disregarded that paradoxa are part of social reality. A constitutional approach focussing on rules and institutions promises to yield more fruitful insights. Copyright George Mason University 1990'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["[eng] The comparative reputation and worth of French economists can be judged from the number of entries by country in Blaug's Who's Who in Economics. The result is ambiguous since the French are ranked first among non-English speaking economists while their share in the world total number is only 3 %. The article studies who these economists are and scrutinizes the reliability of the method used to select them. It is then shown why French economists are likely to be underrepresented when compared with their American terparts. Incentives to research and publications as well as the impact of national traditions are particularly examined. Finally it is argued that French economists' standing could be improved by developing a more open relationship with the rest of the world. [fre] Alain Wolfelsperger Werner Pommerehne Bruno Frey La valeur des \xc3\xa9conomistes fran\xc3\xa7ais Le nombre d'entr\xc3\xa9es par pays dans le Who' s Who in Economies publi\xc3\xa9 par M. Blaug a \xc3\xa9t\xc3\xa9 utilis\xc3\xa9 pour appr\xc3\xa9cier la r\xc3\xa9putation et la valeur relative des \xc3\xa9conomistes fran\xc3\xa7ais. Le r\xc3\xa9sultat est ambigu dans la mesure o\xc3\xb9, bien que plac\xc3\xa9s au premier rang des pays de langue non anglaise, ils ne repr\xc3\xa9sentent que 3 % du nombre total des \xc3\xa9conomistes retenus. L'article \xc3\xa9tudie d'abord qui sont ces principaux \xc3\xa9conomistes de France et jusqu'\xc3\xa0 quel point la m\xc3\xa9thode utilis\xc3\xa9e par Blaug est fiable. Il est alors possible d'examiner pour quelles raisons les \xc3\xa9conomistes fran\xc3\xa7ais ont moins de chances de figurer \xc3\xa0 ce palmar\xc3\xa8s que leurs homologues am\xc3\xa9ricains en particulier. L'accent est mis sur les incitations \xc3\xa0 la recherche et \xc3\xa0 la publication ainsi que sur certaines traditions nationales. La conclusion est que, en toute hypoth\xc3\xa8se, la position des \xc3\xa9conomistes fran\xc3\xa7ais pourrait \xc3\xaatre am\xc3\xa9lior\xc3\xa9e par une plus large ouverture sur le reste du monde."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Most people except professional academic economists resist or reject the use of the price system. The four main reasons are: lack of information; undesirable distributional consequences; unfairness and reluctance to trade; and adverse effects on preferences. The reasons brought forward against the price system are only partly convincing, particularly in comparison to other decision-making systems. The use of the price system may create more problems than traditional neoclassical economics admits. The difficulties and paradoxes connected with the use of the price system provide a challenge to existing economic theory. Copyright 1986 by WWZ and Helbing &amp; Lichtenhahn Verlag AG'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The victory of Public Choice may not yet have arrived, and the share of European contributions may still be small. It has nevertheless been argued that there is a great future in Public Choice. Three especially promising areas have been indicated by way of example: the theory of economic policy, politico-economic models; and International Political Economy. The European contribution to the future development of Public Choice may well consist in introducing novel aspects of human behaviour. The institutional conditions at most European universities provide for a much less strict training of students at the graduate level. The disadvantages of such a system are obvious. There may, however, also be advantages: the young researchers are less pressed into the straight-jacket of received orthodox theory, so that they have by necessity to bring forth more personal initiative and thinking. The relative advantage of European Public Choice may well lie in combining fruitful open areas with new ideas on human behaviour. Copyright Martinus Nijhoff Publishers 1985'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Sono esaminati alcuni tentativi di collegare i fattori economici e politici nell\xe2\x80\x99ambito dell\xe2\x80\x99economia internazionale. La base analitica \xc3\xa8 la teoria economica della Politica delle Scelte Pubbliche. Sono esplicitamente considerati e stimati econometricamente le istituzioni e i processi politico-economici. Viene fornita una interpretazione del protezionismo. Altre aree esaminate sono l\xe2\x80\x99aiuto internazionale, la cooperazione internazionale e i concomitanti effetti sui beni pubblici (con riguardo al sistema monetario internazionale e alle risorse mondiali comuni), e le organizzazioni internazionali, in particolare la Banca Mondiale. Sono valutate la situazione presente e le prospettive future.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Empirical evidence is collected and discussed regarding the influence of public bureaucrats on government sector outcome in their capacity as consumer-voters. It is necessary to isolate the specific effect of working in the public sector (compared to other occupations) on voting participation and on the probability to support an increase in the public budget. For a balanced evaluation of public bureaucrats' power, other forms of their influencing the government sector outcome need to be taken into account. Copyright Martinus Nijhoff Publishers 1982"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper analyzes bureaucracy within the context of the politico-economic framework using the rational choice approach. Bureaucracy interacts with various groups of decision-makers, and its influence depends on institutional differences, in particular representative democracy with or without referendum. Theoretical and empirical analysis for Swiss cities suggests that (1) there is little evidence for any significant influence on policy outcome by bureaucrats qua voters; (2) there is evidence that bureaucracy has a direct influence on the supply side; (3) it is not useful to view bureaucracy to be in an isolated position of a monopolist.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Traditionally, the demand for public expenditures has been estimated using for explanatory variables the average values of per capita income, as well as other variables. The results of this approach are disappointing, due to the lack of a theoretical basis. The public choice model, on the other hand, uses the political decision-making process (median voter model) to explain expenditures. Taking the same set of data, it can be shown that the public choice approach yields superior results. It also offers a solution to the unfruitful discussion about the influence of "political" determinants of public expenditures'] ['The goal of the rich countries should be to aid the poor countries to increase their standard of living but not to increase their holdings of weapons. It is shown that a basic dilemma arises. The structure of \xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xc5\x93consumption\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac of the recipient countries cannot be influenced by giving aid in the form of (civilian) goods rather than untied foreign exchange. The consumption of civilian goods can be increased by granting a price-subsidy but this leads to a smaller increase in utility than obtained with a transfer in money or kind. Transfers of goods with restricted substitutability and \xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xc5\x93all-or-none\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac schemes are suggested to overcome these conflicts, but they imply an interference with the internal affairs of the poor countries.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Finally, one must add that not all political cycles are caused by economic factors, and vice versa. The important point is the explicit recognition of their mutual interdependence. Copyright Center for Study of Public Choice Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University 1971'] [' To rationally explain political participation, two factors must be taken into account:  a)  the opportunity costs of the time expended, and    b)  the productivity of time use in performing political activities.    Ceteris paribus, the higher a), the lower is participation and the higher b), the higher is participation. A combination of these factors gives the following tendencies. Copyright Center for Study of Public Choice Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University 1971'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']