 ['This research advances and empirically establishes the hypothesis that, in the course of the prehistoric exodus of Homo sapiens out of Africa, variation in migratory distance to various settlements across the globe affected genetic diversity and has had a persistent hump-shaped effect on comparative economic development, reflecting the trade-off between the beneficial and the detrimental effects of diversity on productivity. While the low diversity of Native American populations and the high diversity of African populations have been detrimental for the development of these regions, the intermediate levels of diversity associated with European and Asian populations have been conducive for development. (JEL N10, N30, N50, O10, O50, Z10)'] ['The origin of the uneven distribution of ethnic and cultural fragmentation across countries has been underexplored, despite the importance attributed to the effects of diversity on the stability and prosperity of nations. Building on the role of deeply-rooted biogeographical forces in comparative development, this research empirically demonstrates that genetic diversity, predominantly determined during the prehistoric "out of Africa" migration of humans, is an underlying cause of various existing manifestations of ethnolinguistic heterogeneity. Further research may revolutionize our understanding of how economic development and the composition of human capital across the globe are affected by these deeply-rooted factors.'] ['This research suggests that a Darwinian evolution of entrepreneurial spirit played a significant role in the process of economic development and the dynamics of inequality within and across societies. The study argues that entrepreneurial spirit evolved non-monotonically in the course of human history. In early stages of development, risk-tolerant, growth promoting traits generated an evolutionary advantage and their increased representation accelerated the pace of technological progress and the process of economic development. In mature stages of development, however, risk-averse traits gained an evolutionary advantage, diminishing the growth potential of advanced economies and contributing to convergence in economic growth across countries.'] ['This paper develops the theoretical foundations and the testable implications of the various mechanisms that have been proposed as possible triggers for the demographic transition. Moreover, it examines the empirical validity of each of the theories and their significance for the understanding of the transition from stagnation to growth. The analysis suggests that the rise in the demand for human capital in the process of development was the main trigger for the decline in fertility and the transition to modern growth.'] [' This paper examines the central hypothesis of the influential Malthusian theory, according to which improvements in the technological environment during the preindustrial era had generated only temporary gains in income per capita, eventually leading to a larger, but not significantly richer, population. Exploiting exogenous sources of cross-country variations in land productivity and the level of technological advancement, the analysis demonstrates that, in accordance with the theory, technological superiority and higher land productivity had significant positive effects on population density but insignificant effects on the standard of living, during the time period 1-1500 CE. (JEL N10, N30, N50, O10, O40, O50)'] ['Unified Growth Theory explores the fundamental factors that have contributed to the remarkable transition from stagnation to growth and examines their significance for the understanding of the contemporary growth process of developed and less developed economies. Moreover, it sheds light on the role of historical and pre-historical characteristics in the divergence of income per capita across regions of the world in the past two centuries.'] [' This article explores the implications of Unified Growth Theory for the origins of existing differences in income per capita across countries. The theory sheds light on three fundamental layers of comparative development. It identifies the factors that have governed the pace of the transition from stagnation to growth and have thus contributed to contemporary variation in economic development. It uncovers the forces that have sparked the emergence of multiple growth regimes and convergence clubs, and it underlines the persistent effects that variations in prehistorical biogeographical conditions have generated on the composition of human capital and economic development across the globe. Copyright (2010) by the Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] [' This paper exploits cross-country variation in the degree of geographical isolation, prior to the advent of seafaring and airborne transportation technologies, to examine its impact on the course of economic development across the globe. The empirical investigation establishes that prehistoric geographical isolation has generated a persistent beneficial effect on the process of development and contributed to the contemporary variation in the standard of living across countries. (JEL: O10, F15, N7) (c) 2010 by the European Economic Association.'] [' This paper suggests that inequality in the distribution of landownership adversely affected the emergence of human-capital promoting institutions (e.g. public schooling), and thus the pace and the nature of the transition from an agricultural to an industrial economy, contributing to the emergence of the great divergence in income per capita across countries. The prediction of the theory regarding the adverse effect of the concentration of landownership on education expenditure is established empirically based on evidence from the beginning of the 20th century in the U.S. Copyright , Wiley-Blackwell.'] [' This research argues that the differential effect of international trade on the demand for human capital across countries has been a major determinant of the distribution of income and population across the globe. In developed countries the gains from trade have been directed towards investment in education and growth in income per capita, whereas a significant portion of these gains in less developed economies has been chanelled towards population growth. Cross-country regressions establish that indeed trade has positive effects on fertility and negative effects on education in non-OECD economies, while inducing fertility decline and human capital formation in OECD economies. Copyright 2008, Wiley-Blackwell.'] ['Unified Growth Theory uncovers the forces that contributed to the existence of multiple growth regimes and the emergence of convergence clubs. It suggests that differential timing of take-offs from stagnation to growth segmented economies into three fundamental regimes: slow growing economies in a Malthusian regime, fast growing countries in a sustained growth regime, and economies in the transition between these regimes. In contrast to existing research that links regime switching thresholds to critical levels of income or human capital, UGT associates them with critical changes in the rates of technological progress, population growth, and human capital formation.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["This research argues that the rapid expansion of international trade in the second phase of the industrial revolution has played a major role in the timing of demographic transitions across countries and has thereby been a significant determinant of the distribution of world population and a prime cause of the 'Great Divergence' in income per capita across countries in the last two centuries. The analysis suggests that international trade had an asymmetrical effect on the evolution of industrial and non-industrial economies. While in the industrial nations the gains from trade were directed primarily towards investment in education and growth in output per capita, a significant portion of the gains from trade in non-industrial nations was channelled towards population growth.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [" This paper suggests that the demise of the capitalists\xe2\x80\x94workers class structure was a socio-economic transformation orchestrated by the capitalists in reaction to the increasing importance of human capital in sustaining their profit rates. Physical capital accumulation in the process of industrialization enhanced the importance of human capital in production and generated incentives for capitalists to support the provision of public education for the masses, triggering the demise of the existing class structure. The implications of the theory are consistent with the voting patterns on England's education reform of 1902. Copyright 2006, Wiley-Blackwell."] [' The demographic transition that swept the world in the course of the last century has been identified as one of the prime forces in the transition from stagnation to growth. The unprecedented increase in population growth during the early stages of industrialization was ultimately reversed and the demographic transition brought about a significant reduction in fertility rates and population growth in various regions of the world, enabling economies to convert a larger share of the fruits of factor accumulation and technological progress into growth of income per capita. This paper examines various mechanisms that have been proposed as possible triggers for the demographic transition, assessing their empirical validity, and their potential role in the transition from stagnation to growth. (JEL: O11, O14, O33, O40, J11, J13) Copyright (c) 2005 The European Economic Association.'] [' This paper develops a growth theory that captures the replacement of physical capital accumulation by human capital accumulation as a prime engine of growth along the process of development. It argues that the positive impact of inequality on the growth process was reversed in this process. In early stages of the Industrial Revolution, when physical capital accumulation was the prime source of growth, inequality stimulated development by channelling resources towards individuals with a higher propensity to save. As human capital emerged as a growth engine, equality alleviated adverse effects of credit constraints on human capital accumulation, stimulating the growth process. Copyright The Review of Economic Studies Limited, 2004.'] [' This research develops an evolutionary growth theory that captures the interplay between the evolution of mankind and economic growth since the emergence of the human species. The theory suggests that the struggle for survival that had characterized most of human existence generated an evolutionary advantage to human traits that were complementary to the growth process, triggering the takeoff from an epoch of stagnation to sustained economic growth. \xc2\xa9 2001 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper develops a growth model characterized by ability-biased technological transition in which the evolution of technology, education attainment, and wage inequality is consistent with the observed pattern in the United States and other advanced countries over the past several decades. It argues that an increase in the rate of technological progress raises the return to ability and simultaneously generates an increase in wage inequality between and within groups of skilled and unskilled workers, an increase in average wages of skilled workers, a temporary decline in average wages of unskilled workers, an increase in education, and a productivity transitory slowdown. \xc2\xa9 2000 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['This paper develops a unified growth model that captures the historical evolution of population, technology, and output. It encompasses the endogenous transition between three regimes that have characterized economic development. The economy evolves from a Malthusian regime, where technological progress is slow and population growth prevents any sustained rise in income per capita, into a Post-Malthusian regime, where technological progress rises and population growth absorbs only part of output growth. Ultimately, a demographic transition reverses the positive relationship between income and population growth, and the economy enters a Modern Growth regime, with reduced population growth and sustained income growth.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper examines the historical evolution of the relationship between population growth, technological change, and the standard of living. It considers several unified models that encompass the transition between three distinct regimes that have characterized the process of economic development: ``The Malthusian Regime," ``The Post-Malthusian Regime," and the ``Modern Growth Regime". We view the unified modeling of this long transition process - from thousand of years of Malthusian stagnation through the demographic transition to modern growth - as one of the most significant research challenges facing economists interested in growth and development.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper analyzes the interaction between the distribution of human capital, technological progress, and economic growth.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper analyzes the relationship between technological progress, wage inequality, intergenerational earnings mobility, and economic growth. In periods of major technological inventions, a decline in the relative importance of initial conditions raises inequality, enhances mobility, and generates a larger concentration of high-ability individuals in technologically advanced sectors, stimulating future technological progress and growth. However, once technologies become more accessible, mobility is diminished and inequality decreases but becomes more persistent. The reduction in the concentration of ability in technologically advanced sectors diminishes the likelihood of technological breakthroughs and slows future growth. User friendliness, therefore, becomes unfriendly to future economic growth. Copyright 1997 by American Economic Association.'] [' This essay suggests that the convergence controversy may reflect, in part, differences in perception regarding the viable set of competing testable hypotheses generated by existing growth theories. It argues that, in contrast to the prevailing wisdom, the traditional neoclassical growth paradigm generates the club convergence hypothesis as well as the conditional convergence hypothesis. Furthermore, the inclusion of empirically significant variables such as human capital, income distribution, and fertility in conventional growth models, along with capital markets imperfections, externalities, and nonconvexities, strengthens the viability of club convergence as a competing hypothesis with conditional convergence. Copyright 1996 by Royal Economic Society.'] [' This study develops a general equilibrium model in which the evolution of income inequality and output conforms with the Kuznets hypothesis. The paper presents a novel endogenous mechanism that generates the inverted-U relation between income inequality and per capita output, and captures the reciprocal influence between the two. Unlike previous attempts for a comprehensive theoretical modeling of this phenomenon, the evolution of the economy is consistent with another important empirical observation: namely, that output growth is accompanied in the early stages of development by a widening wage differential between skilled and unskilled labor, whereas in a later stage this wage differential declines. Copyright 1996 by The London School of Economics and Political Science.'] [" This paper examines a novel mechanism linking fertility and growth. There are three components to the model: first, increases in capital per worker raise women's relative wages, since capital is more complementary to women's labor input than to men's. Second, increasing women's relative wages reduces fertility by raising the cost of children more than household income. And third, lower fertility raises the level of capital per worker. This positive feedback loop generates a demographic transition: a rapid decline in fertility accompanied by accelerated output growth. Copyright 1996 by American Economic Association."] [' This paper analyzes the welfare implications of an import tariff for a small overlapping-generations economy. The study analyzes the role of income redistribution, induced by the imposition of a tariff, in the determination of the time path of welfare levels. It is shown that despite homotheticity, the (implicit) pattern of distribution of tariff revenues is an integral and prominent component in the assessment of the welfare consequences of a tariff. The analysis provides sufficient conditions under which a tariff increases short-run as well as long-run welfare despite the absence of changes in the terms of trade. Copyright 1994 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] [' This paper suggests that the recent intertemporal studies concerning the implications of terms-of-trade deterioration on the current account of a small open economy may suffer from significant methodological deficiencies. The study demonstrates that, while the assumption of a small open economy represents a legitimate modeling simplification, the analysis of the impact of perturbation of the terms of trade on the current account of this small open economy is methodologically erroneous. In particular, the paper demonstrates that a given pattern of terms-of-trade deterioration may be associated with opposing evolutionary patterns of the current account of this small economy. Copyright 1994 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] [" This paper analyzes the role of wealth distribution in macroeconomics through investment in human capital. In the presen ce of credit markets' imperfections and indivisibilities in investment in human capital, the initial distribution of wealth affects aggregate output and investment both in the short and in the long run, as ther e are multiple steady states. This paper, therefore, provides an additional explanation for the persistent differences in per-capita output across countries. Furthermore, the paper shows that cross-country differences in macroeconomic adjustment to aggregate shocks can be attributed, among other factors, to differences in wea lth and income distribution across countries. Copyright 1993 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper develops a two-sector overlapping-generations model. It characterizes the dynamical system globally and establishes sufficient conditions for the existence of a globally unique perfect-foresight equilibrium. It provides, therefore, a useful framework for global dynamic analysis of phenomena whose modeling requires a multidimensional commodity space. The analysis demonstrates that gross substitutability in consumption is not sufficient for the determinacy of equilibrium in this production economy. However, if in addition the investment good is capital intensive and second period consumption of two-period-lived individuals is a normal good, then the perfect-foresight equilibrium is globally unique. Copyright 1992 by The Econometric Society.'] [' This paper analyzes the effects of transitory productivity shocks on long-run output. The study demonstrates that, despite it transitory nature, an adverse productivity shock may result in lower long-run output. A fall in productivity reduces output and savings and, consequently, the interest rate increases and investment in human capital falls. Although productivity returns to its initial level, a sufficiently large reduction in investment pushes the economy to a new stationary equilibrium with lower output. A redistribution of income from consumers to savers may restore the initial long-run output. Copyright 1992 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] [" This paper analyzes strategies for economic growth in a small, open, overlapping-generations economy that has access to perfect international capital markets and is characterized in autarky by multiple, locally stable, stationary equilibria. The study designs a growth scheme consisting of external public debt and controls on private capital outflows. This policy permits the economy to move from a low to a high output stationary equilibrium. The policy may be Pareto welfare improving if it is gradualistic and if the economy's rate of convergence to the better equilibrium is faster than the rate of debt accumulation. Copyright 1992 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper analyzes theoretically and empirically the role and significance of occupational mobility in the labor market, focusing on individuals' careers. It provides additional dimensions to the analysis of investment in human capital; wage differences across individuals; and the relationships among promotions, quits, and interfirm occupational mobility. It is shown that part of the returns to education is in the form of higher probabilities of occupational upgrading, within or across firms. Given an origin occupation, schooling increases the likelihood of occupational upgrading. Furthermore, workers who are not promoted, despite a high probability of promotion, are more likely to quit. Copyright 1990 by University of Chicago Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper analyzes the steady-state welfare implications of a Hicks-neutral technological progress, or alternatively, of an i nternational transfer of a Hicks-neutral superior technology within a n overlapping generations framework. The analysis indicates that prod ucers will be induced by profit motives to adopt the advanced technol ogy although its effect on factor prices and intertemporal consumptio n may reduce steady-state welfare. Morever, it is shown that in contr ast to the static results, a Hicks-neutral technical progress alters the long-run factor price ratio through the effect on capital formati on. Copyright 1988 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] [' The transfer paradox may occur in a world with only two countri es ata dynamically stable intertemporal competitive equilibrium. In a framework of overlapping generations with production and investment, a transfer of income may immiserize the recipient while enriching thedonor. Away from the golden ru le, a transfer may result in a Paretoimprovement. Copyright 1987 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']