 ['The standard New Keynesian model with staggered wage setting is shown to imply a simple dynamic relation between wage inflation and unemployment. Under some assumptions, that relation takes a form similar to that found in empirical applications--starting with the original Phillips (1958) curve--and may thus be viewed as providing some theoretical foundations to the latter. The structural wage equation derived here is shown to account reasonably well for the comovement of wage inflation and the unemployment rate in the U.S. economy, even under the strong assumption of a constant natural rate of unemployment.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['We construct a utility-based model of fluctuations with nominal rigidities and unemployment. We first show that under a standard utility specification, productivity shocks have no effect on unemployment in the constrained efficient allocation. That property is also shown to hold, despite labor market frictions, in the decentralized equilibrium under flexible prices and wages. Inefficient unemployment fluctuations arise when we introduce real-wage rigidities. As a result, in the presence of staggered price setting by firms, the central bank faces a trade-off between inflation and unemployment stabilization, which depends on labor market characteristics. We draw the implications for optimal monetary policy. (JEL E12, E24, E52)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['What can estimated reduced-form inflation equations teach us regarding the role of global factors as determinants of inflation? Very little, according to modern monetary theory. I illustrate this claim by exploring the channels through which global factors influence inflation in the small open economy of Gal\xc3\xad and Monacelli (2005).'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We lay out a tractable model for the analysis of optimal monetary and fiscal policy in a currency union. The monetary authority sets a common interest rate for the union, whereas fiscal policy is implemented at the country level, through the choice of government spending. In the presence of country-specific shocks and nominal rigidities, the policy mix that is optimal from the viewpoint of the union as a whole requires that inflation be stabilized at the union level by the common central bank, whereas fiscal policy has a country-specific stabilization role, one beyond the efficient provision of public goods.'] [' Recent evidence suggests that consumption rises in response to an increase in government spending. That finding cannot be asily reconciled with existing optimizing business cycle models. We extend the standard new Keynesian model to allow for the presence of rule-of-thumb consumers. We show how the interaction of the latter with sticky prices and deficit financing can account for the existing evidence on the effects of government spending. (JEL: E32, E62) (c) 2007 by the European Economic Association.'] ['The remarkable decline in macroeconomic volatility experienced by the U.S. economy since the mid-80s (the so-called Great Moderation) has been accompanied by large changes in the patterns of comovements among output, hours and labor productivity. Those changes are reflected in both conditional and unconditional second moments as well as in the impulse responses to identified shocks. That evidence points to structural change, as opposed to just good luck, as an explanation for the Great Moderation. We use a simple macro model to suggest some of the immediate sources which are likely to be behind the observed changes.'] [" We present a simple theory-based measure of the variations in aggregate economic efficiency: the gap between the marginal product of labor and the household's consumption leisure tradeoff. We show that this indicator corresponds to the reciprocal of the markup of price over social marginal cost, and give some evidence in support of this interpretation. We then show that, with some auxiliary assumptions, our gap variable may be used to measure the efficiency costs of business fluctuations. We find that the latter costs are modest on average. However, to the extent that the flexible price equilibrium is distorted, the gross efficiency losses from recessions and gains from booms may be large. Indeed, we find that the major recessions involved large efficiency losses. These results hold for reasonable parameterizations of the Frisch elasticity of labor supply, the relative risk aversion, and steady-state distortions. Copyright by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] [' Most central banks perceive a trade-off between stabilizing inflation and stabilizing the gap between output and desired output. However, the standard new Keynesian framework implies no such trade-off. In that framework, stabilizing inflation is equivalent to stabilizing the welfare-relevant output gap. In this paper, we argue that this property of the new Keynesian framework, which we call the "divine coincidence", is due to a special feature of the model: the absence of nontrivial "real" imperfections. We focus on one such real imperfection, namely, real wage rigidities. When the baseline new Keynesian model is extended to allow for real wage rigidities, the divine coincidence disappears, and central banks indeed face a trade-off between stabilizing inflation and stabilizing the welfare-relevant output gap. We show that not only does the extended model have more realistic normative implications, but it also has appealing positive properties. In particular, it provides a natural interpretation for the dynamic inflation-unemployment relation found in the data. Copyright 2007 The Ohio State University.'] [' This paper evaluates new evidence on price-setting practices and inflation persistence in the euro area with respect to its implications for macro modeling. It argues that several of the most commonly used assumptions in micro-founded macro models are seriously challenged by the new findings. (JEL: E31, E52) (c) 2006 by the European Economic Association.'] ['This paper revisits a property embedded in most dynamic macroeconomic models: the stationarity of hours worked. First, the author argues that, contrary to what is often believed, there are many reasons why hours could be nonstationary in those models, while preserving the property of balanced growth. Second, the author shows that the postwar evidence for most industrialized economies is clearly at odds with the assumption of stationary hours per capita. Third, he examines the implications of that evidence for the role of technology as a source of economic fluctuations in the G7 countries.'] ['Gal and Gertler (1999) developed a hybrid variation of the New Keynesian Phillips curve that relates inflation to real marginal cost, expected future inflation and lagged inflation. GMM estimates of the model suggest that forward looking behavior is highly important; the coefficient on expected future inflation is large and highly significant. Several authors have argued that our results may be the product of either some form of specification bias or poor estimation methods. Here we show that these claims are incorrect. We show that our results are robust to a variety of estimation procedures, including GMM estimation of the closed form, and nonlinear instrumental variables. Hence the conclusions of GG and others regarding the importance of forward looking behavior appear to be robust.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['We lay out an optimizing multicountry framework suitable for fiscal policy analysis in a monetary union. We show that, for any given member country, the relinquishment of monetary policy independence, coupled with nominal price rigidity, generates a motive for fiscal stabilization beyond the optimal provision of public goods. This incentive depends on the degree of symmetry between that country\xe2\x80\x99s and the union average natural rate of interest. Interestingly, this is shown to be the case despite fiscal policy being set, in each individual country, in order to maximize welfare at the level of the union as a whole.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' I provide some new evidence that reinforces the conclusion in Gal\xc3\xad (1999) that exogenous variations in technology play a very limited role, if any, as sources of the business cycle. First, I provide evidence that supports the identification of technology shocks proposed in that paper. Second, I show that similar findings obtain when the same approach is implemented for the Euro area, using a newly available data set. (JEL: E32, E24) Copyright (c) 2004 The European Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["The purpose of the present paper is twofold. First, we characterize the Fed's systematic response to technology shocks and its implications for U.S. output, hours and inflation. Second, we evaluate the extent to which those responses can be accounted for by a simple monetary policy rule (including the optimal one) in the context of a standard business cycle model with sticky prices. Our main results can be described as follows: First, we detect significant differences across periods in the response of the economy (as well as the Fed's) to a technology shock. Second, the Fed's response to a technology shock in the Volcker-Greenspan period is consistent with an optimal monetary policy rule. Third, in the pre-Volcker period the Fed's policy tended to over stabilize output at the cost of generating excessive inflation volatility. Our evidence reinforces recent results in the literature suggesting an improvement in the Fed's performance.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['Jordi Gal\xc3\x83\xc2\xad is Director of the Centre de Recerca en Economia Internacional (CREI), and Professor at Universitat Pompeu Fabra. His recent research has focused on the analysis of the interaction of monetary policy with various shocks and its role in determining the real and nominal features of the business cycle.'] ['A popular view among economists, policy-makers, and the media, is that the Maastricht Treaty and then Stability and Growth Pact have significantly impaired the ability of EU governments to conduct a stabilizing fiscal policy and to provide an adequate level of public infrastructure. In this Paper, we investigate this view by estimating fiscal rules for the discretionary budget deficit over the period 1980-2002, using data on EMU countries and control groups of non-EMU EU countries and other non-EU OECD countries. We do not find much support for this view. In fact, we find that discretionary fiscal policy in EMU countries has become more counter-cyclical over time, following what appears to be a trend that affects other industrialized countries as well. Similarly, we find that the decline in public investment experienced over the last decade by EMU countries is part of a worldwide trend that started well before the Maastricht Treaty was signed.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['We study the international monetary policy design problem within an optimizing two-country sticky price model, where each country faces a short run tradeoff between output and inflation. The model is sufficiently tractable to solve analytically. We find that in the Nash equilibrium, the policy problem for each central bank is isomorphic to the one it would face if it were a closed economy. Gains from cooperation arise, however, that stem from the impact of foreign economic activity on the domestic marginal cost of production. While under Nash central banks need only adjust the interest rate in response to domestic inflation, under cooperation they should respond to foreign inflation as well. In either scenario, flexible exchange rates are desirable.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We provide evidence on the fit of the New Phillips Curve (NPC) for the Euro area over the period 1970\xe2\x80\x931998, and use it as a tool to compare the characteristics of European inflation dynamics with those observed in the U.S. We also analyse the factors underlying inflation inertia by examining the cyclical behaviour of marginal costs, as well as that of its two main components, namely, labour productivity and real wages. Some of the findings can be summarized as follows: (a) the NPC fits Euro area data very well, possibly better than US data, (b) the degree of price stickiness implied by the estimates is substantial, but in line with survey evidence and US estimates, (c)\\ inflation dynamics in the Euro area appear to have a stronger forward-looking component (i.e., less inertia) than in the US, (d) labour market frictions, as manifested in the behaviour of the wage markup, appear to have played a key role in shaping the behaviour of marginal costs and, consequenty, inflation in Europe.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" We estimate a forward-looking monetary policy reaction function for the postwar United States economy, before and after Volcker's appointment as Fed Chairman in 1979. Our results point to substantial differences in the estimated rule across periods. In particular, interest rate policy in the Volcker-Greenspan period appears to have been much more sensitive to changes in expected inflation than in the pre-Volcker period. We then compare some of the implications of the estimated rules for the equilibrium properties of inflation and output, using a simple macroeconomic model, and show that the Volcker-Greenspan rule is stabilizing. \xc2\xa9 2000 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology"] ['The author estimate a decomposition of productivity and hours into technology and nontechnology components. Two results stand out: (1) the estimated conditional correlations of hours and productivity are negative for technology shocks, positive for nontechnology shocks; and (2) hours show a persistent decline in response to a positive technology shock. Most of the results hold for a variety of model specifications and for the majority of G7 countries. The picture that emerges is hard to reconcile with a conventional real-business-cycle interpretation of business cycles but is shown to be consistent with a simple model with monopolistic competition and sticky prices.'] ['The paper reviews the recent literature on monetary policy rules. We exposit the monetary policy design problem within a simple baseline theoretical framework. We then consider the implications of adding various real world complications. Among other things, we show that the optimal policy implicitly incorporates inflation targeting. We also characterize the gains from making a credible commitment to fight inflation. In contrast to conventional wisdom, we show that gains from commitment may emerge even if the central bank is not trying to inadvisedly push output above its natural level. We also consider the implications of frictions such as imperfect information.'] [' We compare the performance of markets and tournaments as allocative mechanisms in an economy with borrowing constraints. The economy consists of a continuum of individuals who differ in their initial wealth and ability level. These must be assigned to a continuum of investment opportunities or inputs of different productivity. With perfect capital markets matching is efficient under both mechanisms. Markets, however, generate higher aggregate consumption because of the waste associated with the production of signals under tournaments. When borrowing constraints are present, tournaments dominate markets in terms of matching efficiency and, for sufficiently powerful signalling technologies, also in terms of aggregate consumption. Copyright 1999 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] ['We develop and estimate a structural model of inflation that allows for a fraction of firms that use a backward looking rule to set prices. The model nests the purely forward looking New Keynesian Phillips curve as a particular case. We use measures of marginal costs as the relevant determinant of inflation, as the theory suggests, instead of an ad-hoc output gap. Real marginal costs are a significant and quantitatively important determinant of inflation. Backward looking price setting, while statistically significant, is not quantitatively important. Thus, we conclude that the New Keynesian Phillips curve provides a good first approximation to the dynamics of inflation.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper reports estimates of monetary policy reaction functions for two sets of countries: the G3 (Germany, Japan and the United States) and the E3 (France, Italy and the United Kingdom). It finds that since 1979 each of the G3 central banks has pursued an implicit form of inflation targeting, which may account for the broad success of monetary policy in those countries over this time period. The evidence also suggests that these central banks have been forward looking: they respond to anticipated inflation as opposed to lagged inflation. As for the E3, even prior to the emergence of the \xe2\x80\x98hard ERM\xe2\x80\x99, the E3 central banks were heavily influenced by German monetary policy. Further, using the Bundesbank\xe2\x80\x99s policy rule as a benchmark, we find that at the time of the EMS collapse, interest rates in each of the E3 countries were much higher than domestic macroeconomic conditions warranted. Taken all together, the results lend support to the view that some form of inflation targeting may be superior to fixing exchange rates, as a means of gaining a nominal anchor for monetary policy.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The standard neoclassical growth model is modified by introducing a market structure characterized by monopolistic competition and variable demand elasticities. In equilibrium, the price elasticity of the demand schedule facing a typical firm is a function of the aggregate savings rate. The latter feature results from an assumed wedge between the elasticity of substitution across goods in productive activities and that in consumption. In contrast with most examples in the literature our model does not require increasing returns (internal or external) in order to generate multiple equilibria.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The author studies the implications for optimal portfolio decisions and equilibrium asset prices of the hypothesis that agents care about other agents' consumption level (in addition to their own). That hypothesis is introduced in two settings: (1) a one-period CAPM model and (2) a multiperiod asset pricing model. The presence of externalities is shown to affect the optimal risky share, as well as the size of adjustments in the latter in response to exogenous changes in the risk-adjusted equity premium. In equilibrium, the equity premium is also affected by the sign and the intensity of the externalities. Copyright 1994 by Ohio State University Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper investigates empirically and attempts to identify the sources of real exchange rate fluctuations since the collapse of Bretton Woods. The paper's first two sections survey and extend earlier, non-structural empirical work on this subject by Campbell and Clarida (1987), Meese and Rogoff (1988), and Cumby and Huizinga (1990). The paper's main contribution is to build and estimate a three equation open macro model in the spirit of Dornbusch (1976) and Obstfeld (1985) and to identify the model's structural shocks - to demand, supply, and money -using the approach pioneered by Blanchard and Quah (1989). For two of the four countries we study, Germany and Japan, our structural estimates imply that monetary shocks, to money supply as well as to the demand for real money balances, explain a substantial amount of the variance of real exchange rates relative to the dollar. We find that demand shocks, to national saving and investment, explain the majority of the variance in real exchange rate fluctuations, while supply shocks explain very little. The model's estimated short run dynamics are strikingly consistent with the predictions of the simple textbook Mundell-Fleming model.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The author estimates consumption variability ratios for both durable and nondurable consumption using data for six OECD countries. His methodology, which relies on a long-run restriction implied by the consumer's intertemporal budget constraint, overcomes many of the problems inherent to previous approaches. Some important departures from the permanent income model emerge: (1) nondurable consumption shows mild excess smoothness in the United States and Italy, and mild excess volatility in Japan and France, and (2) durable consumption shows extreme excess smoothness in all countries. Alternative factors capable of generating the differences in volatility across types of goods are discussed. Copyright 1993 by MIT Press."] [' Postwar U.S. time series for money, interest rates, prices, and GNP are characterized by a multivariate process driven by four exogenous disturbances. Those disturbances are identified so that they can be interpreted as the four main sources of fluctuations found in the IS-LM-Phillips curve model: money supply, money demand, IS, and aggregate supply shocks. The dynamic properties of the estimated model are analyzed and shown to match most of the stylized predictions of the model. The estimated decomposition is also used to measure the relative importance of each shock, to interpret some macroeconomic episodes, and to study sources of permanent shocks to nominal variables. Copyright 1992, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [" Is consumption more or less variable than predicted by the permanent-income hypothesis? To answer that question, the author develops a procedure based on a long-run restriction implied by the consumer's intertemporal budget constraints. In contrast to previous work, the approach here (1) does not require any assumptions on the stochastic properties of labor income, (2) does not impose restrictions on the consumer's information set, and (3) is robust to departures from the permanent-income-hypothesis model. The application of the procedure to postwar U.S. data suggests that consumption is smoother than the permanent-income-hypothesis model predicts. Copyright 1991 by American Economic Association."] ['No abstract is available for this item.']