 [' The paper tries to convey the idea that choosing a winner among a group of nominees or short-listed candidates may hurt those who bestow prizes, those who are selected, as well as those who base their own choices on the ranking. We base our observations on examples of contests (movies, literature, and music) in which winners often turn out not to be better than nominees. Our suggestion is therefore to select, say five candidates, and not to rank them, but reward all nominees equally. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014'] ['The paper draws on the aesthetic theory and on the cognitive neuroscience approach of music, as well as on music history to try to convince Frederic Scherer that he should listen to music composed after Mahler.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Winemaking is a highly complex technology. It needs inputs over which there is no control (good weather conditions), initial endowments which can hardly be modified (soil, exposure of the slopes), inputs which take 20 to 30 years before producing good quality outputs (vines), manual operations (picking), mechanical operations (rushing, racking) and chemical processes (during fermentation). In the paper, we disentangle the production technology, and try to quantify the impact on prices (qualities) of each of the many inputs (including weather conditions) and steps used in producing wine in M\xc3\xa9doc. We show that technology and weather conditions are able to explain two thirds of the variance of prices; when reputation effects (based on the wine classification made in 1855) are included, this proportion rises to almost 85%. This suggests either that "classified" producers are able to charge higher prices, or that the classification is a measure of quality reflected by prices. We also show that two of the more recent attempts at classifying wines are not as good in explaining prices than the official (and old) 1855 grading.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["We analyze the Celebrity 100 annual list of the world's most \xe2\x80\x9cpowerful celebrities\xe2\x80\x9d compiled and published by Forbes Magazine. The lists provide an interesting collection of people, that includes their earnings, and the perception of citizens concerning the attributes that made them become celebrities. We analyze the relationship between their earnings and the perceptions on their intelligence, talent, beauty and other attributes, and show that though beauty plays a role, intelligence and talent are more important."] ['We suggest a new game-theory-based ranking method for wines, in which the Shapley Value of each wine is computed, and wines are ranked according to their Shapley Values. Judges should find it simpler to use, since they are not required to rank order or grade all the wines, but merely to choose the group of those that they find meritorious. Our ranking method is based on the set of reasonable axioms that determine the Shapley Value as the unique solution of an underlying cooperative game. Unlike in the general case, where computing the Shapley Value could be complex, here the Shapley Value and hence the final ranking, are straightforward to compute. (JEL Classification: C71, D71, D78)'] [' Members of a rock and roll band are endowed with different amounts of creativity. They match, compose songs, and share credit. The presence of more creative members increases the probability of success, but those more creative members may also claim a larger share of the pie. In our theoretical model, the nature of matching as well as the covariation between the probability of success and the allocation of credit among individual members are a function of the completeness of contracting. The data show that rock bands tend to enter into incomplete contracts and positive assortative matching.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Most of the literature on returns to languages is concerned with immigrants. The authors' study, which uses the European Community Household Panel Survey for the period 1994\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x80\x9c2001, infers returns to non-native languages by native workers in nine countries of the European Union. The study differs from other studies that deal with the same issue in three respects. First, instead of using a dummy for each language, they use the ratio of the population not proficient in a given country's national language and compare the results with the more traditional approach using dummies. Second, they correct for time-independent measurement errors in self-reporting and find that the resulting IV estimates are much larger than those obtained by OLS. They also suggest that there is little room for time-persistent errors and heterogeneity and that therefore their estimates should suffer ostensibly little from unobserved ability biases. Finally, they estimate IV quantile regressions to illustrate how returns to languages vary at different points of the distribution of earnings."] ['The author shows that it was neither Maurice Allais [1947] nor Paul Samuelson [1958] who ?invented? the overlapping generations model, but the Italian writer Italo Calvino. In a short story written in 1944, all the basic elements where in place, and Calvino proves that not only, there exists an equilibrium, but also that this equilibrium is unstable to small exogenous shocks, such as an imported generation that is more honest than the existing ones. The model is extended to other situations such as the celebrated Dutch tulipmania and the Madoffmania, as well as to the stability, or rather, the instability of marriage. Classification JEL : B20, B22, B50, E13, Z11'] ["Most of the literature on returns to languages is concerned with immigrants. The authors' study, which uses the European Community Household Panel Survey for the period 1994-2001, infers returns to non-native languages by native workers in nine countries of the European Union. The study differs from other studies that deal with the same issue in three respects. First, instead of using a dummy for each language, they use the ratio of the population not proficient in a given country's national language and compare the results with the more traditional approach using dummies. Second, they correct for time-independent measurement errors in self-reporting and find that the resulting IV estimates are much larger than those obtained by OLS. They also suggest that there is little room for time-persistent errors and heterogeneity and that therefore their estimates should suffer ostensibly little from unobserved ability biases. Finally, they estimate IV quantile regressions to illustrate how returns to languages vary at different points of the distribution of earnings."] ['We examine patterns of acquiring non-native languages in a model with two linguistic communities with heterogeneous learning skills, where every individual faces the choice of self-learning the foreign language or acquiring it at a profit-maximizing linguistic school. We consider a one-school model with divisions in both communities and various two-school settings with a school in each community. We compare the number of learners and welfare implications under self-learning with those obtained under various schooling contexts. In particular, we show that for communities with similar size, introducing language schools always increases the number of learners with respect to the exclusive self-learning option.'] [': G 01, G 12, M 40, M 48'] [" European countries in which universities rely on public funding increasingly follow the lead of the United Kingdom and run Research Assessment Exercises. Given the subjective nature of such evaluations, some scientists prefer verifiable measures such as citation counts. This, however, also is prone to problems since the number of cites is correlated, among others, with the order of appearance in an issue. In particular, leading papers are more cited. It is, thus, difficult to assess whether they are of better quality, or whether this happens because they appear first in an issue. We make use of a natural experiment that was carried out by a journal in which papers are randomly ordered in some issues, while this order is at the editors' discretion in other issues. Our estimates suggest that approximately two thirds of the additional cites are due to going first, and one third to higher quality. Copyright 2010 Oxford University Press 2009 All rights reserved, Oxford University Press."] ["We analyze the welfare consequences of an increase in the commissions charged by intermediaries in auction markets. Commissions are similar to taxes imposed on buyers and sellers, and standard economics suggests that both sellers and buyers are made worse off by the tax. However, we show that when the buyers' participation constraint binds and when sellers set optimal reservation prices, the level of commissions correlates to participation and reservation prices in such a way that participating buyers strictly gain from higher commissions."] ['The paper addresses the issue of linguistic diversity and its impact on economic policy and political decisions. Importance of the topic is illustrated by examination of optimal sets of official languages in the European Union. It is shown that alternative estimation methods of language disenfranchisement alter the order in which the languages enter the list of the official ones. Also, we present an overview of gametheoretic models of language acquisition, where individuals weigh costs and benefits of studying new languages. These models are used to predict actual distribution of language skills in a society and to compare it with the first-best outcome. The paper ends with estimation of our predictions on the basis of empirical analysis of European data.'] ['Extensive multilingualism is one of the most important and fundamental principles of the European Union (EU). However, a large number of languages (currently 23) hinders communication and imposes substantial financial and legal costs. On the other hand, the reduction of the number of languages would disenfranchise some or many EU citizens. We use the results of a survey on languages and argue that even though a linguistic reform reducing the number of languages is unlikely to gain sufficient political support today, this may change in the future since young people are more proficient at speaking foreign languages.'] ['We analyze the voting behavior and ratings of judges in a popular song contest held every year in Europe since 1956. The dataset makes it possible to analyze the determinants of success, and gives a rare opportunity to run a direct test of vote trading. Though the votes cast may appear as resulting from such trading, we show that they are rather driven by quality of the participants as well as by linguistic and cultural proximities between singers and voting countries. Therefore, and contrary to what was recently suggested, there seems to be no reason to take the result of the Contest as mimicking the political conflicts (and friendships).'] [' We study whether quality assessments made by wine experts and by consumers (based on prices obtained at auction between 1980 and 1992) can be explained by variables describing endowments (land characteristics, exposures of vineyards) and technologies (from grape varieties and picking, to bottled wines). However, since technological choices are likely to depend on endowments, the effects can only be identified using an instrumental variables approach. We show that technological choices affect quality much more than natural endowments, the effect of which is negligible. Copyright \xef\xbf\xbd The Author(s). Journal compilation \xef\xbf\xbd Royal Economic Society 2008.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We discuss the effects of bundling two goods offered by two symmetric firms. This situation requires the use of some sharing rule for the profits from the sales of the bundle. We show that the choice of this rule may have substantial effects on prices and profits \xe2\x80\x93 even if the possible rules eventually yield equal shares. In particular, the use of the a priori equal sharing rule yields lower prices and profits, than a price weighted sharing rule. When competitors bundle, they can implicitly cooperate via the setting of the profit sharing rule and increase their profits at the expense of consumers. This issue calls for some further attention by regulators.'] [' We analyze the empirical relationship between journal prices, their quality measured by their citation counts, their age, as well as conduct of publishers. The database covers 22 scientific fields and more than 2,600 of among the most highly reputed and cited journals in 2003. We show that (a) for-profit journals charge roughly 3 times more than journals run by scientific societies; (b) the number of citations has a positive impact on prices; (c) there are large differences in prices across fields that vary by a factor between 1 and 6; these are highly (and positively) correlated with the degree of concentration in the industry. (JEL: D49, L86, Z00) (c) 2007 by the European Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" In empirical studies of sequential auctions of identical objects prices have been found to decline. We study three ascending price auctions of ancient Chinese porcelain recovered from shipwrecks, in which there are very long sequences of lots containing the same number of identical objects. In the three auctions different setups were used. We exploit these 'natural experiments' to examine whether some sequences generate more revenue than others. Our results point to the fact that a sequence of lots each of which contains the same numbers of items generates more revenue than lots with varying numbers of items. We also find that over a sequence of lots hammer prices decline and converge to some limit value, which is larger than the pre-sale estimate in the first two sales, and is equal to the pre-sale estimate in the third one. Copyright 2007, Oxford University Press."] ['The European Union has recently expanded from 15 to 25 countries, bringing the number of official languages to 20. Currently, the EU extends equal treatment to all member countries\xe2\x80\x99 official languages. This, however, is costly, especially since many Europeans speak one of the procedural languages, English, French or German, either as a native or a foreign language. We develop a simple theoretical model of linguistic-regime choice in a multilingual society and apply the model\xe2\x80\x99s insights to the case of the EU: we compute disenfranchisement rates that would result from using only the three procedural languages for all EU business and then proceed to quantify the average cost per person and cost per disenfranchised person associated with providing translations and interpreting into the remaining languages. Both the disenfranchisement rates and costs are shown to vary substantially across the different languages, raising important questions about the economic efficiency of equal treatment for all languages. We argue that an efficient solution would be to decentralize the provision of translations.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['In this paper we adopt the Selten-Pool [Selten, R., Pool, J., 1991. The distribution of foreign language skills as a game equilibrium. In: Selten, R. (Ed.), Game Equilibrium Models, vol. 4. Springer-Verlag, Berlin, pp. 64-84] framework of language acquisition based on "communicative benefits" derived from the ability to communicate with other speakers of an acquired language, and "learning costs" incurred by acquiring a foreign language. We show that, under some mild conditions, there exists a unique interior linguistic equilibrium. We then derive demand functions for foreign languages, that we estimate for English, French, German and Spanish in 13 European countries and demonstrate that the properties of these functions are consistent with our theoretical results.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper examines three situations in which distances between languages, genes, and cultures matter. The first is concerned with the determinants that govern the learning of foreign languages. One of these is the \xe2\x80\x9cdifficulty\xe2\x80\x9d of the foreign language, represented by the distance between the native and the foreign language. The second case deals with the formation and breaking-up of nations. Here, it is suggested that genetic distances between regions with diversified populations (such as between the Basque country and the rest of Spain) need to be \xe2\x80\x9ccompensated\xe2\x80\x9d by more generous transfer systems if the nation wants to avoid secession-prone behavior. The last case looks at a very popular cultural event, the Eurovision Song Contest, in which nations are represented by singers who are ranked by an international jury that consists of citizens chosen in each participating country. It is shown that what is often considered as logrolling in voting behavior is rather generated by voting for culturally and linguistically close neighbors. Copyright Springer Science + Business Media, Inc. 2005'] [' This article introduces the notion of language disenfranchisement which arises if the number of EU working languages is reduced and some EU citizens are denied the use of their own language for official purposes. We use data on language proficiency in the EU and show that, in spite of the widespread knowledge of English, the retention of French and German as working languages is essential to avoid a high degree of disenfranchisement of EU citizens. We also argue that, even though French is the second leading language within the EU, the recent enlargement could change that situation. Copyright Blackwell Publishing Ltd 2005.'] [" We consider a linguistically diversified society and examine the notion of language disenfran-chisement when some individuals are denied the full access to documents and political process in their native tongues. To calculate the disenfranchisement indices we use the Dyen percentage cognate matrix of linguistic distances between Indo-European languages and apply survey and population data on language proficiency in the European Union. We then determine optimal sets of official languages that depend on society's sensitivity against disenfranchisement and comprehensiveness of the chosen language regime. We also discuss the language situation in the European Union after its last enlargement. (JEL: D70, O52, Z13) Copyright (c) 2005 by the European Economic Association."] ['The role of experts is dramatically increasing in our societies, where sorting information about quality is becoming more and more difficult. This paper looks at expertise in the arts (movies, novels and musical interpretation) and shows that expert opinion given shortly after the work has been produced (Oscars, prizes, rankings in musical competitions) may influence success, though it does not always recognize talent and does often not survive the "test of time," considered by many art philosophers, since Hume, as one of the possible measures of fundamental aesthetic quality.'] ['We discuss a subscription game in which service providers (e.g., museums)team up in offering a limited time subscription or access pass allowing unlimited usage of their services. In this game, a natural way to allocate the subscription income among the service providers is by using the Shapley value. We show that, for the particular game considered,the Shapley value takes a very intuitive and computationally simple form.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Pianists who achieve high scores in the Queen Elizabeth musical competition are rewarded by subsequent success. This is not surprising in itself, but it is not immediately clear whether this is caused by the score or because those who have high scores are better pianists. Data on eleven consecutive competitions make it possible to distinguish between the two explanations, since an unexpected situation allows us to use an instrumental variable (the randomly assigned order in which musicians appear at the competition), uncorrelated with ability, but correlated with the results of the competition.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' In this paper we consider a model of oligopolistic competition where firms make a two-dimensional product line decision. They choose a location in style space, thus inducing horizontal differentiation, and produce different qualities (a product line) of a given good (vertical differentiation), consumed by a population of customers who differ in their income and preference for style. We prove the existence of a non-cooperative equilibrium and show that, as the degree of competition increases, prices approach marginal cost. The approach is used to show that European car producers seem indeed to use product lines to discriminate across EU countries. Copyright 2002 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd and The Victoria University of Manchester'] [' We address the question of the quality of movies produced between 1950 and 1970. A first outcome of our analysis is that the quality assessments made during the Cannes Festival, and to a lesser degree, by the U.S. Academy are short-lasting. In contrast to this, consumers seem consistent over time. There is, however, one issue on which experts agree as well as consumers: American movies dominate both in terms of commercial success and in terms of quality. There is less agreement, and sometimes there is even dissent concerning other dimensions. This does not come as a surprise and merely indicates that there is hardly a common yardstick along which the quality of a movie can be measured. Therefore, decomposing a work of art into quantifiable characteristics \xe2\x80\x93 even in a subjective but possibly unanimous way \xe2\x80\x93 would make it possible to explain the divergences between audiences and changes of appreciation over time. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 1999'] [" In their paper on price comovements of paintings, Ginsburgh and Jeanfils show that in three important markets (London, Paris and New York), prices of well-known and lesser known painters ''move together'' (are cointegrated). They conclude that therefore, an investor may be indifferent between the two groups of painters. We show that this is not the case, since well-known painters are less risky, and that though returns may be comparable, the share of well-known painters in a portfolio of paintings might be as high as 90%. We also construct long-run and short-run portfolios and show that these may be very different. These short-term portfolios give interesting insights which help in characterizing each of the three markets. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 1999"] [' Consumer arbitrage affects international pricing in several ways. If all consumers face the same arbitrage costs, a monopolists profit increases with arbitrage costs, and world welfare declines with them (if output does not rise). If arbitrage costs differ across consumers, a monopolist may sell in a second country even if there is no local demand--it can use the second country to discriminate across consumers in the first country. Again, world welfare typically falls with arbitrage costs. When there is also local demand in the second country, world welfare may be increasing in arbitrage costs, even if output falls. Copyright 1999 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Though retaliation to discriminatory measures taken by a trading partner are made possible by international treaties (GATT and WTO in particular), it is rarely used. We give theoretical reasons for which this has been the case. We also show that the retaliation mechanism which is built into the GATT-WTO rules prevents tariff wars, but does not necessarily lead to free trade. We provide an alternative retaliation rule which yields free trade as the unique equilibrium of the tariff game.'] [' This paper focuses on the relations of land artists to the art market.As landworks are by their very nature site specific, what is sold is mostoften the documentation of the project. This paper examines whether there isa market for Land Art and if so, whether it shares the same characteristicsas markets for Minimal and Conceptual Art, which started at about the sametime. Data collected on auctions over the period 1972\xe2\x80\x931992, show thatthis market is very thin. This was probably realized by Land artists wholater seem to have turned to more marketable creations. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 1997'] ['We examine the effect of bilateral trade in a concentrated industry under Cournot competition, when firms are regulated by national agencies who care about national social welfare. We allow for differences in costs and market sizes and for asymmetric information between regulatory agencies and regulated firms. A national regulatory policy may or may not be publicly observed by foreign competitors. We show that it is optimal to allow states to subsidize their domestic firms: bilateral trade improves the allocative efficiency and reduces the agency costs of regulation. Strategic trade policy effects that appear when regulatory contracts are public are beneficial to both states and reduce incentive costs as well as allocative inefficiencies. Results extend to the case of segmented markets with export costs when states are allowed to use export subsidies as well as to regulate domestic production. They also extend under perfect information to an arbitrary number of states and regulated firms, to the existence of private importing firms and of a not too large export market.'] [' We argue that for the case of heterogeneous commodities with infrequent tradings, such as paintings, it is relevant to base a price index on hedonic regressions using all sales and not resales only. To support this conclusion we construct a price index for paintings by Impressionists and their followers and compare the various estimators using bootstrapping techniques. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 1996'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Art is priceless, but paintings, and other objects, have been sold on markets since the time of the Roman Empire. In this paper, we describe a method for constructing a price index for paintings and compare this index to the indices of various financial markets. In particular, we discuss whether the price of art is related to financial markets, whether the art market is weakly efficient, and whether it is more or less risky than financial markets. The Geneva Papers on Risk and Insurance Theory (1994) 19, 7\xe2\x80\x9321. doi:10.1007/BF01112011'] ['We construct returns and quantity indices for Impressionist, Modern and Contemporary painting over the last thirty years, using the results of public auctions. In particular, we isolate the large swing in prices during the late 1980s; from results on individual artists, we also conclude that the randomness in the behaviour of prices is very limited, once the behaviour of the aggregate market in known.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["We show that Baumol's conclusion that returns on bonds are higher than returns on paintings is too pessimistic. There are segments in the market for which returns are significantly higher than returns on bonds and stocks, during long periods of time (20 to 40 years); since tastes do change slowly (though not in a predictable way), this may imply that beating the market is not impossible. We also construct price indexes for paintings over the last 200 years.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We show that price differences across EC countries have seriously decreased in 1986-87 compared with 1983-84. It is however difficult to assess whether this evolution is due to exchange rate variations going "in the right direction" or to voluntary decisions made by producers to comply with EC regulations. We also show that exchange rate and production cost variations do not seem to be transmitted to export prices; exporters merely follow prices set by domestic producers.'] ['This paper develops the idea of forward induction in the context of increasing returns. The situation is modeled as a game of entry with a fixed cost and no marginal cost. The recursive equations that provide the solution of the infinitely repeated game are determined and solved for various cost configurations. Two cases may be distinguished: the monopoly may result either from history or from a durable competitive advantage. In both cases the competition is extreme since no threats, credible or not, are admitted.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' In this paper, the authors show that an indirect approach, based on mathematical programming, can be followed to evaluate the shadow wage rate and the profitabilty of various production alternatives. The idea is applied to a typical autarkic farm of the intertropical Sahelian region. Copyright 1989 by Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' In his 1975 paper, Nordhaus formally proves that governments whose aim is to be reelected, will generate \xe2\x80\x98political\xe2\x80\x99 business cycles. Empirical results do not confirm this proposition, especially in countries used to early elections. We show that if there is a non-zero probability for elections to be called before the legal term, the political business cycle will be less pronounced, even if no early election actually takes place; moreover, if the normal electoral cycle is interrupted before the legal term, one might observe an inversion of the business cycle, or no cycle at all. Copyright Martinus Nijhoff Publishers 1983'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']