 ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' \xc2\xa9 1997 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] [" We present a partial equilibrium model of endogenous firm growth with R&amp;D; investment and stochastic innovation as the engines of growth, drawing on the quality ladder models in the macro growth literature, and the literature on patent races and the discrete choice models of product differentiation. The model fits a number of empirical patterns well, including: (i) a skewed size distribution of firms with persistent differences in firm sizes, (ii) firm growth independent of firm size, as stated in the so-called Gibrat's law, and (iii) R&amp;D; investment proportional to sales."] ['Recently controversy has surrounded the issue of whether Social Security payments to the elderly should continue to be adjusted automatically according to changes in the Consumer Price Index (CPI). One issue in the public policy debate concerns whether price inflation is different for the elderly, particularly because the official Bureau of Labor Statistics price indexes for medical care have been growing more rapidly than the overall CPI, and medical care expenditures constitute a larger proportion of the elderly\xc2\x92s budget than of the young\xc2\x92s.Using annual IMS data from 1990 to 1996, we examine empirically whether elderly-nonelderly price inflation differentials exist for prescription pharmaceuticals. We assess prices for prescription drugs destined for ultimate use by the elderly versus the nonelderly at three points in the distribution chain: initial sales from manufacturers, intermediate purchases by retail pharmacies, and final sales from retail pharmacies to patients or payors. We find that at the initial point in the distribution chain, no differences in price inflation exist for the aggregate of drugs destined for use by the elderly versus those for the nonelderly. At the intermediate sell-in point to pharmacy distribution, we examine antibiotics (ABs), antidepressants (ADs), and calcium channel blockers (CCBs). For ABs, since 1992 price inflation has been somewhat greater for the elderly than for the young, reflecting in part the elderly\xc2\x92s more intensive use of newer branded products having fewer side effects, adverse drug interactions and more convenient dosing\xc2\x97attributes of particular importance to the elderly. For ADs, price inoation is considerably less for the elderly than for the young, due in large part to the elderly\xc2\x92s greater use of older generic products. For CCBs, elderly-nonelderly differentials are negligible. None of these differentials adjust for variations in quality.At the final retail sell-out point, we examine only ADs. We find that because retailers obtain larger gross margins on generic than on branded products, and because the elderly are disproportionately large users of generic ADs, the elderly-nonelderly price inflation differential benefiting the elderly at the intermediate point is reduced considerably at final sale.'] ['This paper considers research performance of U.S. universities for eight science fields. At the aggregate level we find that research output follows a constant returns to scale process. However, for individual universities we find evidence of diminishing returns. We offer two explanations for these differing results. First, data errors are more important at the individual level. Second, research spillovers exist between universities and fields that are captured only at the aggregate level.'] ['Recent work on the relationship of productivity growth to expenditures on R&amp;D; is discussed with special reference to "unfinished business": unsolved conceptual and econometric problems. The standard "R&amp;D; as a capital" model raises a number of difficult conceptual issues, especially the meaning and measurement of the depreciation of "knowledge" and of the associated economic rents created by it. In addition, empirical implementations of this model have to struggle with the possibility of simultaneity and reverse causality and the implication of imperfect markets for knowledge-based products. An empirical example of some of these issues is presented using data from a panel of U.S. R&amp;D; -performing firms, showing both the difficulties alluded to above and evidence for the continued importance of the R&amp;D; process for the growth of productivity.'] [' We model demand for four cephalosporins and compute own- and cross-price elasticities between branded and generic versions of the four drugs. We model demand as a multistage budgeting problem, and we argue that such a model is appropriate to the multistage nature of the purchase of pharmaceutical products, in particular the prescribing and dispensing stages. We find quite high elasticities between generic substitutes and also significant elasticities between some therapeutic substitutes.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This article reviews the literature on the relationship of economic growth to the education levels of the labor force. The emphasis is on Yoram Ben-Porath's contribution to some of the issues in this field: the endogeneity of schooling, the role of the public sector as an 'absorber' of educated labor, and the importance of personal human capital created by investments in reputation and personal relationships, the F-connection. Copyright 1997 by University of Chicago Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This note reviews the history of the "residual," from its earliest articulation in Copeland (1937) to its codification in Solow (1957), describing the various earlier contributions by Tinbergen, Stigler, Schmookler, Fabricant, Kendrick, Abramovitz, and others.'] ['This paper explores the inconsistency of common scale estimators when output is proxied by deflated sales, based on a common output deflator across firms. The problems arise when firms operate in an imperfectly competitive environment and prices differ between firms. In particular, we show that this problem reveals itself as a downward bias in the scale estimates obtained from production function regressions, under a variety of assumptions about the pattern of technology, demand and factor price shocks. The result also holds for scale estimates obtained from cost functions. The analysis is carried one step further by adding a model of product demand. Within this augmented model we examine the probability limit of the scale estimate obtained from an ordinary production function regression. This analysis reveals that the OLS estimate will be biased towards unity - or possibly a value below unity. We have included an empirical section which illustrates the issues. The empirical analysis presents a tentative approach to avoid the problems discussed in the theoretical part of this paper.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper examines the appropriate treatment in the cost-of-living index of the appearance of new varieties of old goods. Existing theory here applies to individual households. Thus, the authors first show in what sense Laspeyres and Paasche indices for groups of households can be considered approximations to theoretically desirable group indices and then go on to the case of new goods. The authors apply their results to the case of the introduction of generics in pharmaceuticals and show that proper treatment can make a considerable difference. Copyright 1995, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper investigates the shift in demand away from unskilled and toward skilled labor in U.S. manufacturing over the 1980s. Production labor-saving technological change is the chief explanation for this shift. That conclusion is based on three facts: (1) the shift is due mostly to increased use of skilled workers within the 450 industries in U.S. manufacturing rather than to a reallocation of employment between industries, as would be implied by a shift in product demand due to trade or to a defense buildup; (2) trade- and defense-demand are associated with only small employment reallocation effects; (3) increased use of nonproduction workers is strongly correlated with investment in computers and in R&amp;D.; Copyright 1994, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [" When the patent on a drug expires, there are substantial welfare gains to those consumers who, like the Food and Drug Administration, regard branded and generic versions as perfect substitutes. Standard price indexes fail to reflect this, since they treat generics as distinct new goods and 'link them in' with fixed weights. Alternative calculations are presented using detailed data on the wholesale prices of two anti-infective drugs. Significant differences are found: for one of the drugs studied, the standard price index rose by 14 percent over forty-five months following patent expiration, while the authors' preferred alternative index fell by 48 percent. Copyright 1994 by American Economic Association."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' From January 1984 through December 1989, the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) price index for prescription pharmaceuticals grew at 9.09 percent per year. Using BLS-type Laspeyres index procedures with monthly price and quantity data on all prescription pharmaceuticals sold by four U.S. pharmaceutical manufacturers accounting for 24 percent of industry domestic sales, we find that the four-company index increases at 6.68 percent per year. When we employ a Divisia price index with smoothed weights incorporating new goods, the index grows 6.03 percent per year. Why does the BLS index grow 50 percent more rapidly than the Divisia index? That mystery is the focal point of our article.'] ["Our test of price-taking behavior looks at the choice of capacity rather than the choice of output. It is motivated by a complete spot markets model in which goods are distinguished by the selling probabilities in addition to other characteristics. When output is explained by total man-hours and a capacity utilization proxy, the coefficient of the first variable is the elasticity of capacity with respect to fixed labor. Under competition and risk neutrality this coefficient is equal to an average labor share. We use this observation to interpret Abbot-Griliches-Hausman's regressions and to argue that once the capacity utilization proxy is included in the regression, Hall's data at the manufacturing level fail to reject the joint hypothesis of competition and risk neutrality. It is also argued that the coefficient of total man-hours does not tell us anything about monopoly power once the capacity utilization proxy is omitted from the regression.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['A few months ago, Congress overruled the peer review process of the National Science Foundation. A congressional aide looked over the list of NSF grants, decided that 31 of them had titles unworthy of funding, and a conference committee voted on May 21 to cut off those grants. The cuts were made without hearings, without due process, and without public discussion. This note is to let the economics profession know what happened.'] [' R&amp;D; spillovers are, potentially, a major source of endogenous growth in various recent "new growth theory" models. This paper reviews the basic model of R&amp;D; spillovers and then focuses on the empirical evidence for their existence and magnitude. It surveys the older empirical literature with special attention to the economic difficulties of actually coming up with convincing evidence on this topic. Taken individually, many of the studies are flawed and subject to a variety of reservations, but the overall impression remains that R&amp;D; spillovers are both prevalent and important. Copyright 1992 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics.'] ['This survey reviews the growing use of patent data in economic analysis. After describing some of the main characteristics of patents and patent data, it focuses on the use of patents as an indicator of technological change. Cross-sectional and time-series studies of the relationship of patents to R&amp;D; expenditures are reviewed, as well as scattered estimates of the distribution of patent values and the value of patent rights, the latter being based on recent analyses of European patent renewal data. Time-series trends of patents granted in the U.S. are examined and their decline in the 1970s is found to be an artifact of the budget stringencies at the Patent Office. The longer run downward trend in patents per R&amp;D; dollar is interpreted not as an indication of diminishing returns but rather as a reflection of the changing meaning of such data over time. The conclusion is reached that, in spite of many difficulties and reservations, patent data remain a unique resource for the study of technical change.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['In this paper we investigate the incidence of measurement errors in two independent estimates of long-term price change, within the framework of "multiple indicators" models of price measurement. We develop estimates of the measurement-error variances associated with both the Producer Price Index (PPI) and the Census Unit Value Relative (UVR) . Our estimates provide support for the generally accepted view that the PPI is a far more reliable indicator of long-term price change: the estimated signal-to-noise ratios for the PPI and UVR are 2.72 and 0.53, respectively. Our estimates should be useful for both constructing an optimal indicator of price change, and for identifying econometric models including error-ridden price- or output-growth terms as regressors. Our analysis suggests that "scores" assigned to product deflators provide useful information about their reliability. By extending our model to explicitly incorporate product-quality change, we are able to assess the importance of the problem posed by quality change for price and productivity measurement. Less than half of quality change, which we estimate to occur at an average annual rate of 1.3 percent, appears to be adjusted for in the PPI. Consequently, estimates of productivity growth based on the PPI underestimate "quality-adjusted" productivity growth by an estimated 43 percent.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper examines the stock market\'s valuation of a firm\'s innovative activity. We estimate the market\'s relative valuation of firms\' tangible and intangible assets, focusing on knowledge capital in the form of accumulated "stocks" of R&amp;D; and patents. We tried to improve upon our estimates of the stock market\'s valuation of knowledge capital embodied in such "stocks" by bringing in measures of the appropriability environment facing a firm from the Yale Survey on Industrial Research and Development. The responses to Survey questions about the effectiveness of patents as a mechanism for protecting the returns from innovation turn out to be of some use: there is evidence of an interaction between industry level measures of the effectiveness of patents and the market\'s valuation of a firm\'s past R&amp;D; and patenting performance, as well as its current R&amp;D; moves. We find no evidence, however, that other appropriability mechanisms differ enough across industries to leave measurable traces in our data. The structure of the Yale Survey makes it possible to estimate the sampling error in the appropriability measures derived from it. This information was used by us in an errors-in-variables context, but with little success. In the absence of R&amp;D; variables, our estimates imply that a two standard deviation increase in our index of patent effectiveness would raise the value of a patent held by our average firm from $0.4 million to $1.0 million. When R&amp;D; variables are introduced into the equations, the patents variables become insignificant - R&amp;D; expenditures are a better measure of input to the innovative function of firms than patents are of its output - but we estimate that the same experiment would induce changes in q of between 10 and 27 percent for the average firm, approximately doubling the market\'s valuation of this kind of capital.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' A new data set for approximately 1,000 largest manufacturing firms inthe United States during 1957-77 is analyzed using a standard production function framework augmented by the addition of R&amp;D; "capital" and "mix" variables. The results indicate that R&amp;D; continued to contribute to productivity growth with no significant decline in its effectiveness in the 1970s as compared to the 1960s; that the contribution of basic research was significantly higher than its nominal ratio would imply; and that federally financed R&amp;D; expenditures had a positive but smaller effect on the productivity growth of these firms than the comparable contribution of privately financed R&amp;D; expenditures. Copyright 1986 by American Economic Association.'] ['Panel data based on various longitudinal surveys have become ubiquitous in economics in recent years. Estimation using the analysis of covariance approach allows for control of various "individual effects" by estimation of the relevant relationships from the "within" dimension of the data. Quite often, however, the "within" results are unsatisfactory, "too low" and insignificant. Errors of measurement in the independent variables whose relative importance gets magnified in the within dimension are often blamed for this outcome. However, the standard errors-in-variables model has not been applied widely, partly because in the usual micro data context it requires extraneous information to identify the parameters of interest. In the panel data context a variety of errors-in-variables models may be identifiable and estimable without the use of external instruments. We develop this idea and illustrate its application in a relatively simple but not uninteresting case: the estimation of "labor demand" relationships, also known as the "short run increasing returns to scale" puzzle.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In this paper, we investigate the problem of estimating distributed lags in short panels. Estimates of the parameter of distributed lag relationships based on single time-series of observations have been usually rather imprecise. The promise of panel data is in the N repetitions of the time-series that it contains which should allow one to estimate the identified lag parameters with greater precision. On the other hand, panels tend to track their observations only over a relatively short time interval. Thus, some assumptions will have to be made on the contribution of the unobserved presample x\'s to the current values of y before any lag parameters can be identified from such data. In this paper we suggest two such assumptions; both of which are, at least in part, testable, and outline appropriate estimation techniques. The first places reasonable restrictions on the relationship between the presample and in sample x\'s while the second imposes conventional functional form constraints on the lag coefficients. The paper concludes with an example which investigates empirically how to construct a "capital stock" for profit or rate of return regressions.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper focuses on developing and adapting statistical models of counts (non-negative integers) in the context of panel data and using them to analyze the relationship between patents and R&amp;D; expenditures. The model used is an application and generalization of the Poisson distribution to allow for independent variables; persistent individual (fixed or random) effects, and "noise" or randomness in the Poisson probability function. We apply our models to a data set previously analyzed by Pakes and Griliches using observations on 128 firms for seven years, 1968-74. Our statistical results indicate clearly that to rationalize the data, we need both a disturbance in the conditional within dimension and a different one, with a different variance, in the marginal (between) dimension. Adding firm specific variables, log book value and a scientific industry dummy, removes most of the positive correlation between the individual firm propensity to patent and its R&amp;D; intensity. The other new finding is that there is an interactive negative trend in the patents - R&amp;D; relationship, that is, firms are getting less patents from their more recent R&amp;D; investments, implying a decline in the "effectiveness" or productivity of R&amp;D.;<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper compares and analyzes the growth of productivity in the manufacturing industries and firms in France and the U.S. based on newly assembled comparable data sets in both countries. Three explanations of the recent productivity slowdown are reviewed: shortfall in physical investment, rise in materials prices, and a decline in the intensity or fecundity of R&amp;D; investment, and found not to bear on the differences in productivity growth between and within the two countries, either at the industry or the firm levels.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The question I shall address in this pa-per is: Can the slowdown in productivity growth be explained, wholly or in part, by the recent slowdown in the growth of real R&amp;D; expenditures? But first we have to review the following questions: I) What is to be explained? Which productivity and what slowdown? 2) What is the mechanism by which R&amp;D; could have contributed to this slowdown? 3) What did happen to R&amp;D; in the relevant period? Besides traversing this somewhat familiar ground and reviewing some of the recent literature on this topic, I shall also report on some estimates of my own. The direct answer to the opening question is "probably not." But how we get there needs documenting and may prove instructive on its own merits.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This article outlines the production function approach to the estimation of the returns to R&amp;D; and then proceeds to discuss in turn two very difficult problems: the measurement of output in R&amp;D; intensive industries and the definition and measurement of the stock R&amp;D; "capital." The latter concept leads to a discussion of modeling of the spillover effects of R&amp;D; and to suggestions for possible measurement of such effects via the concept of technological distance between firms and industries. Somewhat more familiar econometric problems (multicollinearity and simultaneity) are taken up in the next section and another section is devoted to estimation and inference problems arising more specifically in the R&amp;D; context. Several recent studies of returns to R&amp;D; are then surveyed, and the paper concludes with a plea for a lowering of expectations as to what the available data can tell us and with suggestions for ways of expanding the current data base in this field.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper reviews a number of cost studies conducted by the Cost Finding Section of the ICC purporting to show that the elasticity of total railroad costs with respect to output (percent variable) is 0.8.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']