 [' Sharp differences in time use by nativity emerge when activities are distinguished by incidence and intensity in recent US data. A model with daily fixed costs for assimilating activities predicts that immigrants are less likely than natives to undertake such activities on a given day; but those who do will spend relatively more time on them. Activities such as purchasing, education, and market work conform to the model. Other results suggest that fixed costs for assimilating activities are higher for immigrants with poor English proficiency or who originate in less developed countries. An analysis of comparable Australian data yields similar results. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2013'] ['We examine monthly variation in weekly work hours using data from 2003 to 2010. The data sources include the Current Population Survey (CPS) on hours/worker, the Current Employment Survey (CES) on hours/job, and the American Time Use Survey (ATUS) on both. The ATUS data minimize recall difficulties and constrain hours of work to accord with total available time. The ATUS hours/worker are less cyclical than the CPS series, but the hours/job are more cyclical than the CES series. We present alternative estimates of productivity based on ATUS data, and find that it is more pro-cyclical than other productivity measures.'] ["How would people spend time if confronted by permanent declines in market work? We identify preferences off exogenous cuts in standard hours that raised employers' overtime costs in Japan around 1990 and Korea in the early 2000s. We use time diaries to relate the probability that an individual was affected by the legislation to behavioral changes. Reduced-form estimates show that the direct effect was a substantial reduction in market time, with the freed-up time in Japan reallocated to leisure, in Korea partly to household production. Simulations using GMM estimates of a Stone\xe2\x80\x93Geary utility function suggest no effect on household production in either country. A household model shows only sparse evidence that spouses shared the time gift, or that one spouse's non-market time use changed when the other spouse's market work was exogenously reduced."] [' J7, E3  Copyright Biddle and Hamermesh; licensee Springer. 2013'] [' Time-diary data from 27 countries show a negative relationship between GDP per-capita and gender differences in total work\xe2\x80\x94for pay and at home. In rich non-Catholic countries, men and women average about the same amount of total work. Survey results show scholars and the general public believe that women work more. Widespread average equality does not arise from gender differences in the price of time, intra-family bargaining or spousal complementarity. Several theories, including ones based on social norms, might explain these findings and are consistent with evidence from the World Values Surveys and microeconomic data from Australia and Germany. Copyright The Author(s) 2013'] ['Presenting data on all full-length articles in the three top general economics journals for one year in each decade 1960s-2010s, I analyze changes in patterns of coauthorship, age structure and methodology, and their possible causes. The distribution of number of authors has shifted steadily rightward. In the last two decades, the fraction of older authors has almost quadrupled. Top journals are publishing many fewer papers that represent pure theory, regardless of subfield, somewhat less empirical work based on publicly available data sets, and many more empirical studies based on data collected by the author(s) or on laboratory or field experiments. (JEL A14)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["We measure the impact of individuals' looks on life satisfaction and happiness. Using six data sets, from Canada, Germany, the United Kingdom, and the United States, we construct beauty measures in a number of different ways. Beauty raises happiness: A one standard-deviation change in beauty generates about 0.08 standard deviations of additional satisfaction/happiness among men, 0.07 among women. The finding is robust to a rare opportunity to measure it using an instrumental variables approach. Accounting for a wide variety of covariates, particularly educational, marital, and labor-market outcomes that might be affected by beauty, the gross effects are roughly halved, with small reductions arising from the impact of beauty on monetary outcomes."] [' Using microeconomic data sets from the United States and the Netherlands, this study considers how agents perceive characteristics that are discriminated against. It uses the examples of beauty and height to examine whether: 1) Absolute or relative differences in a characteristic affect labor-market and other outcomes; and 2) The effects of a characteristic change when all agents acquire more of it. Decision-makers seem to respond more to absolute than to relative differences among individuals. Weaker results show that an increase in the mean of a characteristic\xe2\x80\x99s distribution does not alter market responses to differences in it. Copyright Hamermesh; licensee Springer. 2012'] ['Merging several data sets from Portugal from 1986-2004 with a cross-section on the same firms for 003 that gives information on work timing, we describe temporal patterns of firms\xe2\x80\x99 demand for labor and estimate production functions. The results demonstrate the existence of substitution of employment across times of the day/week and imply that legislated penalties for work at irregular hours induce firms to alter their operating schedules. They suggest that policies that shift the timing of hours of work can explain some of the difference in work timing between Europe and the U.S.'] [" Using a very large sample of matched author-referee pairs, we examine how referees' and authors' genders affect the referees' recommendations. Relying on changing author-referee matches, we find no evidence of gender differences among referees in charitableness, nor is there any effect of the interaction between the referees' and authors' genders. With substantial laboratory research showing gender differences in fairness, the results suggest that outside the laboratory, an ethos of objectivity can overcome possible tendencies toward same-group favoritism or opposite-group discrimination. \xc2\xa9 2011 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] [" How would people spend additional time if confronted by permanent declines in market work? We examine the impacts of cuts in legislated standard hours which raised employers' overtime costs in Japan around 1990 and in Korea in the early 2000s. Using time-diaries from before and after, we show the shocks were effective -- per-capita hours of market work declined discretely. The economy-wide drops in market work were reallocated solely to leisure and personal maintenance. In the absence of changing household technology a permanent time gift leads to no increase in time spent in household production by the average individual."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Major League Baseball umpires express their racial/ethnic preferences when they evaluate pitchers. Strikes are called less often if the umpire and pitcher do not match race/ethnicity, but mainly where there is little scrutiny of umpires. Pitchers understand the incentives and throw pitches that allow umpires less subjective judgment (e.g., fastballs over home plate) when they anticipate bias. These direct and indirect effects bias performance measures of minorities downward. The results suggest how discrimination alters discriminated groups' behavior generally. They imply that biases in measured productivity must be accounted for in generating measures of wage discrimination. (JEL J15, J31, J44, J71, L83)"] ['In the 2006-2007 American Time Use Survey and its Eating and Health Module over half of adults report grazing (secondary eating/drinking) on a typical day, with grazing time almost equaling primary eating/drinking time. An economic model predicts that higher wage rates (price of time) will lead to substitution of grazing for primary eating/drinking, especially by raising the number of grazing intervals relative to meals. This prediction is confirmed in these data. Eating meals more frequently is associated with lower BMI and better self-reported health, as is grazing more frequently. Food purchases are positively related to time spent eating--substitution of goods for time is difficult--but are lower when eating time is spread over more meals.'] ['Time-diary data from four countries suggest that differences in market time between the unemployed and employed represent additional leisure, not increased household production. In areas where unemployment is cyclically high, however, reduced market work is offset by additional home production.'] ["We link ATUS 2003-04 to March CPS data and examine market work's effects on non-market activity. In a structural model fixed time costs of work generate a utility-equivalent of 8% of income to be overcome before working becomes optimizing."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["David Colander's update/reworking of his 1987 volume draws conclusions about graduate study in economics from interviews with students in selected leading U.S. programs. Although not formally statistical, the interviews support the conclusion that most of the core of graduate instruction (except macro) is handled very well. Colander's concern about the lack of attention to training teachers is well founded. His conclusion that fewer idiots savants are being trained than in the 1980s is overly optimistic, and his worry about stresses that graduate students express is misplaced."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['A large literature examines the addictive properties of such behaviors as smoking, drinking alcohol, gambling and eating. We argue that for some people addictive behavior may apply to a much more central aspect of economic life: working. Although workaholism raises some of the same health-related concerns as other addictions, compared to most of the more familiar addictions it is more likely to be a problem of higher-income individuals and is more likely to generate negative spillovers onto individuals around the workaholic. Using the Retirement History Survey and the Panel Study of Income Dynamics, we show that high-income, highly educated people exhibit behavior that is consistent with workaholism with regard to retiring\xc2\x96they are more likely to postpone earlier plans for retirement. The theory and evidence suggest that the presence of workaholism calls for a more progressive income tax system than otherwise, although other more targeted policies may be part of optimal policy.'] ['Wemake several extensions to the recent literature on job loss whilemodernizing the very early job-displacement literature. After constructing a dynamicmodel of two-sided learning between a firm and its workers, we estimate it using personnel data from Fokker Aircraft that cover the path of layoffs and quits through its bankruptcy in March 1996. We find that the firm learns about workers\xe2\x80\x99 loyalty (demonstrating the role of information in repeated cooperative principal-agent relationships), while workers do not learn (consistent with earlier empirical results on American workers). The type of data that we use also generates information on the value of learning and on whether and how the characteristics of workers who remain until the firm\xe2\x80\x99s death differ from those of all affected workers. It thus allows us to measure the increases in the firm\xe2\x80\x99s value from learning about its workers\xe2\x80\x99 behavior and to infer the extent of biases in estimating losses from displacement from samples restricted to displaced workers.'] ["We link information on graduates from many cohorts to their high-school and college records and demographics to infer the impact of college major on earnings. We develop an estimator to handle potential non-response bias and identify non-response using an affinity measure--the potential respondent's link to the survey organization. This technique is generally applicable for adjusting for unit non-response. In the earnings model estimated using the identified (for non-response bias) selectivity adjustments, adjusted earnings differentials across college majors are below half as large as unadjusted differentials and ten percent smaller than those that do not account for selective non-response."] ['With a worldwide burgeoning development of matched firm-employee data now underway, it is worthwhile to examine the possibilities for using these data. This essay discusses a variety of areas in which some progress has been made and presents ideas for future research in a number of others, including the study of labor demand, search and unemployment, wage determination and time use. It concludes that such data could be as important for labor economics, and for generating new knowledge about labor markets, as have been longitudinal household datasets, but with existing restrictions on access this kind of success will be difficult to achieve.'] ["The SOEP is the second most widely-used household survey worldwide (behind the American PSID), and it is used far beyond the German-speaking world. Partly this widespread usage is due to the helpful translations of the codebooks and variable names and the homogenization of the dataset by the Cornell group in the CNEF. Partly too, it has resulted from the data themselves - their breadth and the care with which they have been collected. The biggest strength of the SOEP is, of course, the remarkably high quality of the data. Few researchers appreciate this - we use whatever data we can lay our hands on to develop/ test our theories. We economists are among the worst sinners in this dimension. The SOEP's biggest strength has been its continuing renewal - adding refresher and additional samples that concentrate on new populations of interest. The expansion to include the Neue L\xc3\xa4nder in 1990; the enlargement of the immigrant sample; and particularly the inclusion of special samples, such as that of high-income households, have both maintained the representativeness of the survey and, more important in my view, created the SOEP's unique status as a source of longitudinal information on particular sub-populations. The renewals of the sample are the biggest assurance to researchers and to the policy and intellectual publics that, we hope, pay attention to our work, that any results reflect contemporary experience in Germany.."] [" Daylight, television schedules, and time zones can alter timing and induce temporal coordination of economic activities. With the American Time Use Survey for 2003-2004 and data from Australia for 1992, we show that television schedules and the locations of time zones affect the timing of market work and sleep, with differences in timing being generated partly by returns to coordination with other agents. The responsiveness to time zone differences is greatest among workers in industries in national markets. An exogenous shock resulting from an area's nonadherence to daylight saving time leads its residents to alter work schedules to coordinate with people elsewhere. (c) 2008 by The University of Chicago. All rights reserved.."] [" Economists have devoted substantial attention to firms' supply of variety, but little to consumers' demand for variety. Employing the framework of home production, we trace differences in demand to differences in the opportunity costs of activities, associated with investments in human capital. Schooling alters time costs and changes the variety of activities household members choose. Time budgets from Australia, Israel, and West Germany show that higher own and spouses' incomes raise variety (suggesting positive income effects). Education increases variety independent of income and earnings; part of its impact goes beyond a correlation of educational attainment with preferences for variety. Copyright by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] [' Social commentators have pointed to problems of workers who face "time stress"-an absence of sufficient time to accomplish all their tasks. An economic theory views time stress as reflecting how tightly the time constraint binds households. Time stress will be more prevalent in households with higher full earnings and whose members work longer in the market or on "required" homework. Evidence from Australia (2001), Germany (2002), the United States (2003), and Korea (1999) corroborates the theory. Adults in households with higher earnings perceive more time stress for the same amount of time spent in market work and household work. The importance of higher full earnings in generating time stress is not small, particularly in the United States-much is "yuppie kvetch." Copyright by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ["This examination of the role and potential for replication in economics points out the paucity of both pure replication - checking on others' published papers using their data - and scientific replication - using data representing different populations in one's own work or in a comment. Several controversies in empirical economics are used to illustrate how and how not to behave when replicating others' work. The incentives for replication are examined, and proposals aimed at journal editors and authors are advanced that might stimulate an activity that most economists applaud but few perform."] [' The material contained herein is supplementary to the article named in the title and published in the American Journal of Agricultural Economics, Volume 89, Number 4, November 2007.'] [" Does a country benefit from temporarily importing human capital? Do foreign academic visitors generate additional scholarly research on local issues? I use a survey in which visitors to ANU's Economics Program described their research before and after their visit and designated an otherwise similar non-visitor as a control. Matching to controls may thus be along observable and unobservable characteristics. These visits have a highly significant impact on the visitor's subsequent research, redirecting it toward Australia. Valuing this extra research based on scholarly citations received and the effects of citations on salaries shows substantial monetary gains. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2006 The Economic Society of Australia."] ["I estimate the effects of changing an ascriptive characteristic on a market outcome while keeping the average amount of information unchanged. Taking advantage of candidates' multiple appearances in elections to office in a professional association and of the presence of different photographs accompanying the ballots, I show that exogenous increases in beauty raise a candidate's chance of success. The results support the inference that differential outcomes are inherent in agents' responses to an ascriptive characteristic and do not stem from correlations with unobserved differences in productivity-enhancing characteristics.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['We illustrate problems of measuring discrimination using elections to AEA offices. With a new econometric technique, we find female candidates have a much better than random chance of victory. This advantage is either reverse discrimination or reflects beliefs that women are more productive. The former interpretation could be explained by an unchanging median voter whose preferences were not satisfied by suppliers of candidates; but there was a structural change in voting behavior in the mid-1970s. The results suggest it is generally impossible to claim differences in rewards, for different groups measure the extent of discrimination or even its direction. (JEL A11, D72, J16)'] [' We take U.S. and Israeli household data on expenditures of time and goods, generate an exhaustive set of commodities that households produce/consume using them, and calculate their relative goods intensities. Leisure activities are uniformly relatively time intensive, health, travel and lodging relatively goods intensive. We demonstrate how education and age alter the goods intensity of household production. The results of this accounting can be used as guides to: understanding how goods and income taxation interact to affect welfare; expanding notions of the determinants of international flows of goods; generating models of business cycles and endogenous growth to include interactions of goods and time consumption; and obtaining better measures of the distribution of well being. Copyright 2006 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Routine - maintaining the same schedule from day to day - saves time. It is also boring and inherently undesirable. As such, the amount of routine a person engages in is partly an economic outcome, with variations in routine generated by variations in the price of time, household income and the ability to generate variety. Using time-budget data from Australia, Germany, the Netherlands and the United States, I show that men engage in more routine behavior than women, but only because they spend more time in (routine) market work. Other things equal, more educated people engage in less routine behavior, while higher household incomes enable people to purchase more temporal variety. Spouses' temporal routines are highly complementary. The positive income effects and impacts of schooling indicate yet another avenue by which standard measures of inequality understate total economic inequality.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["We discuss the new American Time Use Survey (ATUS), an on-going household survey of roughly 1,200 Americans per month (1,800 per month in the first year, 2003) that collects time diaries as well as demographic interview information from respondents who had recently been in the Current Population Survey. The characteristics of the data are presented, as are caveats and concerns that one might have about them. A number of novel uses of the ATUS in economic research, including in the areas of macroeconomics, national income accounting, labor economics, and others, are proposed to illustrate the magnitude of this new survey's possible applications."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This study examines the various uses of subjective outcomes as a focus of interest for economists. It outlines the possible channels by which economists can usefully add to what is already a massive literature on such outcomes in the other social sciences. Generally, we contribute little if we merely engage in fancier empirical work and still less if we describe subjective outcomes by other subjective outcomes. Our biggest contributions can be in adducing economic theories that allow a better understanding of objective behavior using subjective outcomes, or of the determinants of subjective outcomes, or in understanding subjective outcomes, such as expectations, that underlie objective economic behavior. This was the Association Lecture delivered at the Southern Economic Association meetings, San Antonio, Texas, November 22, 2003.'] [' With this guide, the author aims to induce more economists to talk to people in the media as a means of expanding educational outreach. The guide provides discussions of "do\'s" and "don\'ts" and offers advice on which kinds of research are likely to interest reporters. The author suggests specific approaches to dealing with reporters in different types of media, including print, radio, and television.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We examine the impact of communication technology on scholarly productivity by considering patterns of coauthored economics articles. Using articles in three major economics journals from 1970--79 and 1992--96, we find (1) sharp growth from distant coauthorships (authors not in the same metropolitan area prior to publication), as the theory predicts, and, contrary to theory, (2) lower productivity of distant than close-coauthored works and no decline in their relative disadvantage. These findings are reconciled by noting that high technology has aspects of a consumer good. The relative productivity of solo-authored articles has decreased, perhaps explaining the secular increase in coauthorship. Copyright 2002, Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["A unique survey of Shanghai residents in 1996 that combined labor-market information, appraisals of respondents' beauty, and household expenditures allows us to examine the relative magnitudes of the investment and consumption components of women's spending on beauty-enhancing goods and services. We find that beauty raises women's earnings (and to a lesser extent, men's) adjusted for a wide range of controls. Additional spending on clothing and cosmetics has a generally positive but decreasing marginal impact on a woman's perceived beauty. The relative sizes of these effects demonstrate that such purchases pay back at most 10 percent of each unit of expenditure in the form of higher earnings. Most such spending represents consumption.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["I argue for increased reliance on nonU.S. data and policy evaluations to understand basic labor market parameters and to predict the effects of changes in U.S. labor market policies. Foreign experiences generate exogenous shocks to labor costs that create unusual opportunities to measure impacts on labor demand. Foreign policies often provide more variation in the underlying parameters in systems that are often structured like their American counterparts. Foreign data sets are often larger and better suited to inferring behavior. An empirical examination shows the effect of author's location, data set, and journal on the research's subsequent impact."] ["Evidence from Current Population Surveys, various cohorts of the National Longitudinal Surveys, and the Panel Study of Income Dynamics suggests that the fraction of American employees who were paid salaries held constant from the late 1960s through the late 1970s, and continued to hold constant or perhaps fell slightly thereafter through the late 1990s. An analysis that accounts for the changing industrial, occupational, demographic, and economic structure of the work force shows that this fraction was 9 percentage points below what would have been expected in the late 1970s. This shortfall is not explained by growth in the temporary help industry, declining unionization, institutional changes in overtime or wage payment regulation, the increasing openness of American labor and product markets, or convergence of nonwage aspects of hourly and salaried employment. The author suggests several alternative explanations. (Author's abstract.)"] ["With appropriate data the analysis of time use, labor supply and leisure can move beyond the standard questions of wage and income elasticities of hours supplied. I present four examples: 1) American data from 1973 through 1997 show that the amount of evening and night work in the U.S. has decreased. 2) The same data demonstrate that workers whose relative earnings increase experience a relative diminution of the burden of work at unpleasant times. 3) U.S. data for the 1970s and 1990s demonstrate that spouses' work schedules are more synchronized than would occur randomly; synchrony among working spouses diminished after the 1970s; and the full-income elasticity of demand for it was higher among wives than among husbands in the 1970s but equal in the 1990s. 4) Dutch time-budget data for 1990 show that the overwhelming majority of the windfall hour that occurred when standard time resumed was used for extra sleep."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["The distribution of job satisfaction widened across cohorts of young men in the United States between 1978 and 1988, and between 1978 and 1996, in ways correlated with changing wage inequality. Satisfaction among workers in upper earnings quartiles rose relative to that of workers in the lowest quartile. An identical phenomenon is observed among men in West Germany in response to a sharp increase in the relative earnings of high-wage men in the mid-1990s. Several hypotheses about the determinants of satisfaction are presented and examined using both cross-section data on these cohorts and panel data from the NLSY and the German SOEP. The evidence is most consistent with workers' job satisfaction being especially responsive to surprises in the returns to observable skills, less so to surprises in the returns to unobservables. The effects of earnings shocks on job satisfaction dissipate over time."] ["We examine whether a difference in pay for beauty is supported by different productivity of people according to looks. Using a sample of advertising firms, we find that those firms with better-looking executives have higher revenues and faster growth than do otherwise identical firms whose executives are not so good-looking. The impact on revenue far exceeds the likely effect of beauty on the executives' wages. This suggests that their beauty creates firm-specific investments, in the form of improved relationships within work groups, the returns to which are shared by the firm and the executive.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [" California's longstanding requirement that most women receive time-and-a-half pay for workhours beyond eight in one day was extended to men in 1980. Analyzing Current Population Survey data from 1973, 1985, and 1991, we find that this overtime penalty substantially reduced the amount of daily overtime worked by California men relative to men in other states. Comparisons that use women to control for California-specific shocks show even stronger effects. The estimates imply a price elasticity of demand for overtime hours of at least -0.5. \xc2\xa9 2000 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology"] ['Using a wide array of examples from the literature and from original estimates, the author examines the pitfalls that make good empirical research in labor economics at least as much craft as statistical technique. Among the subjects discussed are the appropriateness and cleanliness of data; problems of extreme observations; the validity of attempts to produce exogeneity using instrumental variables, "natural experiments," and structural models; and the treatment of selectivity and unobservable individual effects. The author stresses the importance of testing empirical results to ensure that they make sense, and of presenting them clearly and economically. (Abstract courtesy JSTOR.)'] ['Two striking facts describe work timing in the United States: a lower propensity to work evenings and nights in large metropolitan areas, and a secular decline in such work since 1973. One explanation is higher and possibly increasing crime in large areas. I link Current Population Survey data on work timing to FBI crime reports. Neither fact is explained by changes in nor inter-area differences in crime rates, but higher homicide rates do reduce such work. This reduction implicitly costs the economy between $4 and $10 billion. This negative externality illustrates a larger class of previously unmeasured costs of social pathologies.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Among U. S. industries where earnings rose relatively from 1979-1995, injury rates declined relatively. Obversely, during the 1960s narrowing inter-industry wage differentials were associated with an increase in the relative risk of injury in high-wage industries. Evidence from the NLSY suggests similar results among full-time workers between 1988 and 1996. Between 1973 and 1991 the disamenity of evening/night work was increasingly borne by low-wage male workers. Changing earnings inequality has understated changing inequality in the returns to work. Assuming skill-neutral changes in the cost of reducing these disamenities, estimates of the implied income elasticities of demand for amenities are well above unity. \xc2\xa9 2000 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] [' The incidence of evening and night work declined sharply in the United States between the early 1970s and the early 1990s, while the fraction of work performed at the fringes of the traditional regular working day grew. This secular decline did not result from industrial shifts or demographic changes. It was greatest at the upper end of the wage distribution, slowest among workers in the lowest quartile of wages. The observed changes are explained by a model that views evening/night work as a disamenity, with rising real earnings leading workers to shift away from such work in the presence of technical change.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Economists'productivity over their careers and as measured by publication in leading journals declines very sharply with age. There is no difference by age in the probability that an article submitted to a leading journal will be accepted. Rates of declining productivity are no greater among the very top publishers than among others, and the probability of acceptance is increasingly related to the author's quality rather than the author's age. \xc2\xa9 1998 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology"] [' The authors propose models with an ascriptive characteristic generating earnings differentials and causing sectoral sorting, allowing them to distinguish among sources producing such differentials. They use longitudinal data on a large sample of graduates from one law school and measure beauty by rating matriculation photographs. Better-looking attorneys who graduated in the 1970s earned more than others after five years of practice, an effect that grew with experience. Attorneys in the private sector are better-looking than those in the public sector, differences that rise with age. These results support theories of dynamic sorting and customer behavior. Copyright 1998 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This study discusses the nature of adjustment costs, which underlie the dynamic theory of input demand. We examine the implications of the conventional assumption that they are quadratic-symmetric and of various alternatives. A recent rapidly growing literature based on microeconomic data shows that the conventional assumption is inferior. We demonstrate the importance of this new knowledge for predicting macroeconomic fluctuations in employment and investment. We indicate its relevance for constructing general equilibrium simulation models, drawing inferences about the likely impacts of labor-market and investment policies, and analyzing firms' dynamic behavior in factor markets."] [' Using a generalized asymmetric adjustment function including both costs of changing employment (net changes) and costs of hiring or firing (gross changes), the authors derive the profit-maximizing path of employment demand and the Euler equation whose parameters they estimate. Identifying the two types of costs requires complete data on turnover, which were available for U.S. manufacturing through 1981 and which demonstrate that both types of costs are needed to track aggregate employment fluctuations if one assumes that costs are symmetric. Allowing for asymmetry, the apparent importance of variations in the turnover rate disappears. Copyright 1996 by The London School of Economics and Political Science.'] ['We use information from a unique survey of Dutch firms to compare the standard proxy for job creation, which is based solely on stocks of employment in individual firms at two points in time, to the correct measure that includes counts of actual jobs. Both are compared to a measure of labor turnover that counts movements of individuals into and out of jobs. We find: 1) The standard proxy for job turnover differs little from actual job turnover; 2) Most mobility is into and out of existing jobs, not to new nor from destroyed jobs; 3) A large fraction of all hires are by firms where employment is declining, and a large fraction of all fires are by firms where employment is expanding; 4) Worker turnover is roughly three times as large as job turnover; 5) Simultaneous hiring and firing exists and is mostly due to unobservable heterogeneity in the work force.'] [' To examine the importance of the two sources of costs of adjusting labor demand, net costs (of adjusting employment) and gross costs (of hiring and firing), the author collects new sets of short monthly time series from a medium-size hospital and three manufacturing plants. Models with quadratic costs and with lumpy costs are developed and yield lower bounds on the fraction of adjustment costs that are gross. The estimates demonstrate that both types of costs affect dynamic labor demand but that gross adjustment costs especially, and the turnover that generates them, deserve much more attention. Copyright 1995 by Royal Economic Society.'] ["Referees' and editors' behavior is illustrated by data from a random sample of refereeing requests by seven economics journals. Referees tend to be higher-quality (better-cited, prime-age) than authors. Except for a few superstar authors, there is no matching of authors and referees by quality. Nearly 80 percent of those asked to referee do so, with a median completion time of less than two months. Except for a few very slow referees and another few who promise but fail to accomplish the task, the slow editorial process is not due to referees' behavior. Paying referees speeds the job, mainly by speeding up those who would barely not qualify for the fee."] ["Although most economic theories of discrimination hypothesize that discrimination stems from people's discriminatory tastes, no empirical study of the labor market has examined tastes for discrimination directly or considered people's willingness to trade off other preferences to indulge their tastes for discrimination. The authors study this trade-off using a set of data on votes for officers in a professional association in 1989 and 1990. They find that female voters were much more likely to vote for female than for male candidates, and that other affinities between them and a candidate had little effect on their choices. Male voters, in contrast, were indifferent to the candidates' gender, and their choices were easily altered by other affinities to a candidate. (Abstract courtesy JSTOR.)"] [" The authors examine the impact of looks on earnings using interviewers' ratings of respondents' physical appearance. Plain people earn less than average-looking people, who earn less than the good-looking. The plainness penalty is 5 to 10 percent, slightly larger than the beauty premium. Effects for men are at least as great as for women. Unattractive women have lower labor-force participation rates and marry men with less human capital. Better-looking people sort into occupations where beauty may be more productive but the impact of individuals' looks is mostly independent of occupation, suggesting the existence of pure employer discrimination. Copyright 1994 by American Economic Association."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Nearly all advanced graduate students and new assistant professors demonstrate naivety in their nonsubstantive professional dealings. Graduate programs in economics offer courses that lead to written drafts of important research; they teach little about how to refine those drafts and, more generally, about the personal interactions that cut and polish intellectual diamonds in the rough. I provide here a short course aimed at removing that naivety and helping young economists to avoid faux pas that might reduce their success in the profession.'] [' The growth of employee benefits in academe has closely paralleled their economy-wide growth. This study estimates a complete system describing the demand for benefits and wages using panel data on 1477 institutions of higher learning. the demand for benefits is very responsive to changes in real income and the tax price of benefits. These conclusions are robust with respect to varying definitions of the tax price, treating it as endogenous, and accounting for unmeasured individual effects on demand. Simulations suggest that the Tax Reform Act of 1986 sharply reduced the demand for benefits. Extrapolating the impact to the entire economy, the annual flow of compensation shifted away from benefits by at least $15 billion. Copyright 1992 by MIT Press.'] ['This study derives and estimates a dynamic model of factor demand that includes both fixed and quadratic variable costs of adjustment. Using quarterly data on the employment of mechanics at seven airlines, it finds that both types of adjustment costs characterize the dynamic constraints facing employers. Using monthly data covering production-worker employment in seven manufacturing plants, it shows that only fixed costs are important. The apparent diversity of the underlying costs of adjustment means it is difficult to draw useful inferences from macroeconometric estimates. It suggests the importance of examining broader arrays of microeconomic time series describing labor demand.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' A formal model of occupational choice is developed that shows the extent to which the compensation for increased duration exceeds that for increased risk. Using the Panel Study of Income Dynamics linked to industry data on injuries and unemployment, the authors find nearly all the compensating wage differential for losses due to workplace injuries is for increases in the duration of loss and similarly for losses due to cyclical unemployment. The compensating differentials for risk of injury are larger for union than for nonunion workers, while those for cyclical unemployment are smaller for union workers. Copyright 1990 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['This study examines what one can infer from aggregate time-series of employment under the assumption that adjustment at the micro level is discrete because of lumpy adjustment costs. The research uses various sets of quarterly and monthly data for the United States and imposes assumptions about how sectoral dispersion in output shocks affects adjustment through aggregation. I find no consistent evidence of any effect of sectoral shocks on the path of aggregate employment. I generate artificial aggregate time series from microeconomic processes in which firms adjust employment discretely. They produce the same inferences as the actual data. Standard methods of estimating equations describing the time path of aggregate employment yield inferences about differences in the size of adjustment costs that are incorrect and inconsistent with the true differences at the micro level. This simulation suggests that the large literature on employment dynamics based on industry or macro data cannot inform us about the size of adjustment costs, and that such data cannot yield useful information on variations in adjustment costs over time or among countries.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Using aggregated data for twelve countries, a cross section of microeconomic data, and a panel of households, the authors demonstrate that increases in time in the labor market reduce sleep. Their theory of the demand for sleep differs from standard models of time use by assuming that sleep affects wages by affecting labor market productivity. Estimates of a system of demand equations demonstrate that higher wage rates reduce sleep time among men, but increase their waking nonmarket time by an equal amount. Among women the wage effect on sleep is negative by very small. Copyright 1990 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['This study uses detailed time diaries from household surveys for 1975 and 1981 to examine how changes in the use of time on the job affect earnings. Among nonunion workers, the marginal minute of break time apparently increases earnings, but not as much as does the marginal minute of work time. Among union workers, additional time in unscheduled breaks appears to be associated with significantly higher earnings, though other break time is not. The author concludes that further growth in on-the-job leisure would reduce productivity, that monitoring workers would yield returns to the firm, but that entirely eliminating breaks would be counterproductive. (Abstract courtesy JSTOR.)'] [' This study examines the costs firms face in adjusting labor demand to exogenous shocks. Evidence on monthly plant-level data shows that adjustment proceeds in jumps: employment is unchanged in response to small shocks, but moves instantaneously to a new equilibrium if the shocks are large. Results in the large literature that assumes smooth adjustment are due to aggregation of this nonlinear relation. The finding has implications for cyclical changes in productivity; for severance pay, layoff, and plant-closing restrictions; and for all other policies that affect the cost of adjusting employment. Copyright 1989 by American Economic Association.'] [" Negative product-market shocks reduce wage growth and increase the probability of plant closing. There is a U-shaped relation between th is probability and job tenure that proxies the specific human capital that raises a firm's value. Estimates based on Panel Study of Income Dynamics data for 1977-81 generally support the model. They show that wages grow less rapidly among workers who will subsequently be displaced and imply that large wage concessions reduce the risk of pl ant closing only slightly. Copyright 1988 by MIT Press."] [" The authors distinguish between bequests that are planned as part of a life time optimization process and those that are the unplanned result of errors in forecasting the date of death. Given the initial endowment, a positive relation b etween the bequest and the planning horizon, and a negative relation between unexpectedly long life and the bequest is expected. A unique data set on wealthy de cedents and their parents provides measures of expected horizons based on parents' longevity. Both predictions are confirmed, and there is an especially large and significant positive relation between the bequest and the length of the planning horizon. Copyright 1987 by Oxford University Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This study defines the nature of worker displacement and develops a mechanism for inferring the amount of losses caused by displacement in away that is tied to economic theory. Data from the Panel Study of Income Dynamics are first used to identify the characteristics of displaced workers. After a demonstration that usual methods of evaluating workers' losses cannot provide correct measures of the cost to society, a game--theoretic model determining the amount of firm -- specific investment in workers is developed. As workers'and firms' horizons decrease, such investment will be reduced; this will be exhibited in a flattening of the wage-tenure profile as the date of displacement approaches. Examination of the profile thus provides a test whether firms and workers have good information about impending displacement. Using the PSID data for workers displaced between 1977 and 1981, the study shows there is no significant flattening of the wage-tenure profile in the entire sample. (However, some flattening does occur among unionized workers, and also among workers who are laid-off permanently from a plant that remains open.) This suggests that workers are surprised by displacement, for they continue investing in firm-specific human capital up to the time of displacement. The present value of the worker's share of the lost returns on this investment is around $7000 (1980 dollars) under intermediate assumptions about the real rate of discount, depreciation on such investment and the effect of tenure on the rate of voluntary separation.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['The implications of downward nominal and ex ante real wage rigidity,and of wage contracting for the dispersion of relative wage changes in the presence of price inflation are examined. Rigidity implies that unexpected inflation will raise the variability of relative wage changes; contracting implies unexpected inflation reduces variability. Using data on manufacturing industries for 1955-81, and on private nonfarm industries for1965-81,these hypotheses are studied. The dispersion in relative wage cnanges is reduced by greater price inflation. Most of the reduction is a response to unexpected inflation: Expected inflation has little impact on dispersion.These findings hold for subperiods within the sample, and are robust to different choices of measures of price expectations,including those of the Livingston survey, the Survey Research Center household data, and ARMA forecasts. They stand in striking contrast to the commonly accepted result that price inflation is associated with greater dispersion of relative price changes. They suggest that inflation reduces the ability of relative wages to signal disequilibria among labor markets.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Unlike price expectations, which are central to macroeconomic theory and have been examined extensively using survey data, formation of individuals' horizons, which are central to the theory of life-cycle behavior, have been completely neglected. This is especially surprising since life expectancy of adults has increased especially rapidly in Western countries in the past ten years. This study presents the results of analyzing responses by two groups--economists and a random sample--to a questionnaire designed to elicit subjective expectations and probabilities of survival. It shows that people do not extrapolate past improvements in longevity when they determine their subjective horizons, though they are fully aware of levels of and movements within today's life tables. They skew subjective survival probabilities in a way that implies the subjective distribution has greater variance than its actuarial counterpart; and the subjective variance decreases with age. They also base their subjective horizons disproportionately on their relatives' longevity, and long-lived relatives increase uncertainty about the distribution of subjective survival probabilities. As one example of the many areas of life-cycle behavior to which the results are applicable, the study examines the consumption-leisure choices of the optimizing consumer over his lifetime. It finds that shortfalls in utility in old age because people's ex ante horizons had to be updated as -- average longevity increased are relatively small. This implies that large subsidies to retirees under today's Social Security system cannot be justified as compensation for an unexpectedly long retirement for which they failed to save.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['This study presents the first evidence on the relation of consumption to lifetime wealth, based on data from the 1973 and 1975 Retirement History Survey that have been linked to Social Security earnings records. Nearly 500 white, married, fully retired couples ages 62-69 form the basis of the analysis. On average their consumption early in retirement exceeds by 14 percent the income that their financial, pension and Social Security wealth can generate. This implies that their saving, both private and through Social Security, is insufficient to sustain consumption throughout the rest of their lives. Additional evidence based on changes in spending between 1973 and 1975 shows that these households respond by reducing their real consumption at a rate sufficient to generate positive changes in net financial worth within a few years after retirement. These two pieces of evidence can be rationalized by a rate of time preference much higher than the interest rate, coupled with either a bequest motive or uncertainty about the length of life. They also imply that, even when combined with private pensions and savings, Social Security in the United States today does not enable most recipients to maintain their living standard at the levels they enjoyed before they retired.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["The effects on consumption and retirement of characteristics of the life cycle, especially the length of the horizon, are examined. At any given age people will work more and consume less if they expect to live longer. This and other propositions are tested on several sets of data. The Terman sample of gifted individuals (320 in 1972, 228 in 1977) is used to relate work status to the length of the horizon, as proxied by parents' longevity. The results suggest the expected positive effect on effort, but its magnitude is quite small. The panel from the Retirement History Survey is used, and life-cycle effects on consumption and retirement are estimated jointly for 1973 and 1975. There is a weak small effect of a more distant horizon (proxied by the number of living parents) in increasing work effort and a stronger, but still fairly small effect in reducing consumption; goods and leisure are consumed jointly, suggesting their complementarity in household production; and spending propensities out of Social Security wealth are far below those out of pension wealth. The small effect of changes in the horizon on work effect suggests the rapid secular increase in longevity has produced a disproportionate increase in people's lifetime demand for leisure. The implied small increase in lifetime income and the slight reduction in consumption among persons with longer horizons indicate that increased longevity has not been met with sufficient spending cuts to enable people to maintain real consumption over their longer lifetimes.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["I formulate measures of the effective minimum wage, based on broad definitions of the labor costs that face employers, and use these measures in reestimating some simple equations relating the relative employment of youths and adults to the U.S. minimum wage using aggregate data for 1954-78.I then ground the model more closely in the theory of factor demand, first by adding the relative wages of youths and adults to the equation describing their relative employment, and then by specifying a complete system of demand equations for these two types of labor. Teen employment responds quite robustly to changes in the effective minimum in these specifications, with an elasticity of -0.1. A translog cost function defined over young workers, adults, and capital shows that the effective minimum wage reduces employers' ability to substitute other factors for young workers. Using both sets of results, I find that a subminimum wage for youths would have increased their employment with at most a small loss of jobs among adults.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["The main stated purposes of social insurance programs have been the maintenance of consumption by people suffering from misfortunes, and the stabilization of employment. Despite this, most recent research on unemployment insurance (UI) and Old Age Insurance has focused on secondary labor-market effects, with only a few studies looking at stabilization, and none considering effects on consumption. In this study we examine how UI will affect the consumption of recipients. For some individuals UI will help remove the constraints on consumption during periods of reduced income that arise from insufficient savings and imperfect capital markets, while for others the UI benefits merely augment the entire lifetime consumption stream. The model enables us to estimate what fractions of the population fall into these two categories. If individuals are also constrained in the allocation of their reduction consumption, consumption propensities out of UI will differ from those out of nonrecipients' income. The model is tested on aggregate time-series data covering 41 consumption categories for 1959-1978:II, and on over 14,000 individuals from the 1972-73 Consumer Expenditure Survey. In both data sets we find no more than half of UI benefits are consumed as if the recipients' consumption were constrained during times of unemployment. In both samples spending out of UI benefits is disproportionately on luxuries, though UI recipients spend greater shares of their income on necessities. The results imply that a large part of social insurance payments does not go to prevent serious imbalances in individuals' lifetime consumption profiles.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We estimate substitution possibilities among a set of age-race-sex groups in the labor force. The estimates are based on cross-section data from SMSAs in 1969,and they allow us to consider how substitutable adult women are for young women or young men. The estimates are used, along with assumptions about the extent of wage rigidity and elasticities of labor supply, to simulate the direct and indirect effects of the growth of the female labor force on job opportunities for youth, assuming rigid wages for young workers, and on the wage rates of adult males, assuming these wages are flexible.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["A critical synthesis of the rapidly growing literature on substitution among labor force aggregates is presented. Despite the large number of studies now available, the only firm conclusions are: (1) Physical and human capital are complements and are jointly substitutable with raw labor. This has implications for policies that subsidize the wage costs of low-wage workers. (2) Young workers' own-wage elasticity of demand exceeds unity, but the degree to which they are substitutes for older workers is unclear. The paper suggests that future research should concentrate on substitution among workers disaggregated by age, education, or sex rather than by the blue-collar-white-collar distinction used in most work and that has little use in policy analysis."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The YIEPP offered a minimum wage job, part-time during the school year and full-time during the summer, to 16-19-year-olds from low-income households who had not as yet graduated from high school and who were enrolled in school. Our finding of large ...'] ['Comments on an article about the significance of labor economics research to policy decisions. Issues surrounding labor economics; Relationship between inflation and unemployment; Information on human capital theory; Factors that influence academic labor economics. (Abstract copyright EBSCO.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Provides information on an economic formula for allocating expenditures for manpower programs across geographical areas in the United States. Issues surrounding revenue-sharing programs; Elements of the proposed economic formula for revenue-sharing; Effect of commuting on allocation of resources in manpower revenue sharing. (Abstract copyright EBSCO.)'] ['Tests the "split the difference" bargaining model by examining data on the parties\' opening and final positions with respect to wages in various negotiations concluded between September 1968 and December 1970. Difficulty with the model proposed by John Nash; Possibilities that emerged. (Abstract copyright EBSCO.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Examination of the wage effects of white-collar and blue-collar unions in manufacturing. Model of relative wages and employment; Effect of unionism on the relative wage; Effects of clerical workers' union; Estimates of wage markups and their effects. (Abstract copyright EBSCO.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']