 ['We solve a long-term contracting problem with symmetric uncertainty about the agent\'s quality, and a hidden action of the agent. As information about quality accumulates, incentives become easier to provide because the agent has less room to manipulate the principal\'s beliefs. This result is opposite to that in the literature on "career concerns" in which incentives via short-term contracts become harder to provide as the agent\'s quality is revealed over time.'] ['This paper models growth via on-the-job learning when firms and workers are heterogeneous. It is an overlapping generations model in which young agents match with the old. More efficient assignments lead to faster long-run growth, more inequality, and less turnover in the distribution of human capital. Constant-growth paths are characterized for general functional forms and then, for the Cobb-Douglas case, the transition dynamics are solved analytically when the skill of the young is log-normally distributed and the initial human capital of the old generation is also log-normal. Growth and inequality move together on the transition to the balanced growth path.'] ['We propose a theory of the market for venture capital that links the excess return to venture equity to the scarcity of venture capitalists (VCs). High returns make the VCs more selective and eager to terminate nonperforming ventures because they can move on to new ones. The scarcity of VCs enables them to internalize their social value, and the competitive equilibrium is socially optimal. Moreover, the bilaterally efficient contract is a simple equity contract. We estimate the model for the period 1989\xe2\x80\x932001 and compute the excess return to venture capital, which turns out to be 8.6 percent. Finally, we back out the return of solo entrepreneurs, which is increasing in their wealth and ranges between zero and 3.5 percent.'] ['Aside from the equilibrium that Hotelling (1931) displayed, his model of non-renewable resources also contains a continuum of bubble equilibria. In all the equilibria the price of the resource rises at the rate of interest. In a bubble equilibrium, however, the consumption of the resource peters out, and a positive fraction of the original stock continues to be traded forever. And that may well be happening in the market for high-end Bordeaux wines.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The rise in world trade since 1970 has been accompanied by a rise in the geographic span of control of management and, hence, also a rise in the effective international mobility of labor services. We study the effect of such a globalization of the world\xca\xbcs labor markets. The world\xca\xbcs welfare gains depend positively on the skill-heterogeneity of the world\xca\xbcs labor force. We find that when people can choose between wage work and managerial work, the worldwide labor market raises output by more in the rich and the poor countries, and by less in the middle-income countries. This is because the middle-income countries experience the smallest change in the factor-price ratio, and where the option to choose between wage work and managerial work has the least value in the integrated economy. Our theory also establishes that after economic integration, the high skill countries see a disproportionate increase in managerial occupations. Using aggregate data on GDP, openness and occupations from 115 countries, we find evidence for these patterns of occupational choice.'] ['We study an economy in which firms use labor and various vintages of capital in a CES production function for the final good. We explicitly solve for the investment in capital of a given vintage as a function of its age, and for the resulting stocks of capital. We show that for reasonable parameter values, inverted-U-shaped dynamics of investment and S-shaped dynamics for capital arise in equilibrium. We view the model as an explanation of intra-firm adoption lags, i.e., the observation that firms adopt innovations over time and not instantaneously.'] ['We ask what level of migration would maximize world welfare. We find that skill-neutral policies are never optimal. An egalitarian welfare function induces a policy that entails moving mainly unskilled immigrants into the rich countries, whereas a welfare function skewed highly towards the rich countries induces an optimal policy that entails a brain-drain from the poor countries. For intermediate welfare functions that moderately favor the rich however, it is optimal to have no migration at all.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["While aggregate data do not show the investment echoes predicted by vintage-capital models, echoes arise in rates of entry and exit of firms at the industry level. Moreover, industries where prices decline rapidly experience early 'shakeouts'. The relation emerges naturally in a vintage-capital model in which exit of firms sometimes accompanies the replacement of their capital, and in which a shakeout is the first replacement 'echo' of the capital created when the industry is born. (Copyright: Elsevier)"] [" Motivated by the observed rise in the trade of technology, I analyse how technology would spread in a frictionless market. In such a world, low-skilled agents prefer to use old technology because it costs less; their skills do not justify the use of frontier technology. The model generates a technology-life cycle of somewhere between 68 and 124 years and per-capita income differential factors between 2.3 and 4.5. The model matches fairly well the cross-section relation between a country's income per capita and the average age of the technologies that its residents use. It is also consistent with aspects of the observed positive relation between income and imports of technology. Copyright , Wiley-Blackwell."] ["This paper extends [R. Mehra, E.C. Prescott, Recursive competitive equilibrium: The case of homogeneous households, Econometrica 48 (1980) 1365-1380] to a production economy with two capital goods. It is an RBC model in which each unit of investment requires a new idea, an 'option.' When options are scarce, new capital is harder to put in place and the value of old capital rises. Thus the stock market and Tobin's Q are negative indexes of intangibles. During a boom, Q rises gradually, as options are used up. Because investment represents an exercise of options, it has an intertemporal substitution tradeoff that is absent from the adjustment-cost model. Equilibrium may be efficient even without markets for knowledge; the stock market may suffice."] ['This paper studies optimal investment policies when the production function depends on capital of various vintages. In such an environment it is natural to ask whether the firm will invest in old-vintage capital at all. In this paper I derive such a condition. Predictably, investment in old capital takes place if the elasticity of substitution between old and new capital is low, and when the depreciation of capital is high. But other parameters such as the rates of technological progress and depreciation matter as well.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Growth of technological variety offers more scope for the division of labor. And when a division of labor requires some specific training, the technological specificity of human capital grows, and, with it, probably the firm specificity of that capital grows. We build a simple model that captures this observation. The model implies that a rising specialization of human and physical capital raises the rents in the average match between a firm and its human and physical capital. We document that in the last 40 years the firm\xe2\x80\x99s share of those rents has also grown, and we use the model to explain why this shift may have taken place.'] [' We model merger waves as reallocation waves, and argue that mergers spread new technology in a way that is similar to that of the entry and exit of firms. We focus on two periods: 1890-1930, during which electricity and the internal combustion engine spread through the U.S. economy, and 1970-2000-the Information Age. As the model implies, reallocation did rise during both epochs. The model also implies that exits should lead mergers during a transition, but this seems to have happened more emphatically in the electrification epoch. Copyright by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [" This article provides a microfoundation for the rise in optimism that seems to precede market crashes. Small, young markets are more likely to experience stock-price run-ups and crashes. We use a Zeira-Rob type of model in which demand size is uncertain. Optimism then grows rationally if traders' prior distribution over market size has a decreasing hazard. Such prior beliefs are appropriate if most new markets are duds and only a few reach a large size. The crash occurs when capacity outstrips demand. As an illustration, for the period 1971-2001 we fit the model to the Telecom sector. Copyright 2007 by the Economics Department Of The University Of Pennsylvania And Osaka University Institute Of Social And Economic Research Association."] [' I estimate a model in which new technology entails random adjustment needs. Rapid adjustments may cause measured productivity to decline. The slow-downs persist because adjustment is costly, and hence protracted. The model explains both the \xe2\x80\x9csteepness\xe2\x80\x9d and the \xe2\x80\x9cdeepness\xe2\x80\x9d asymmetry of cycles. Adjustment costs amount to about 14% of output and technological inefficiency to about 28%. Firms abandon technologies long before they are perfected\xe2\x80\x94current practice total factor productivity (TFP) is 20% below its maximal level. Copyright 2006, Wiley-Blackwell.'] ["On news of a takeover, the sum of the stock market values of the firms involved often falls, and the value of the acquirer almost always does. Does this mean that takeovers do not raise the values of the firms involved? Not necessarily. We set up a model in which the equilibrium number of takeovers is constrained efficient. Yet upon news of a takeover, a target's price rises, the bidder's price falls, and most of the time the joint value of the target and acquirer also falls."] ['This article studies the relation between IPO investment and the rate of interest. The 1950s and early 1960s, especially, were periods of very low real interest rates, and IPO investment was very low, with firms delaying their IPOs significantly. The authors find a qualitative difference between investment of IPO-ing firms and the investment of incumbent firms. The latter is decreasing in the interest rate, as neoclassical theory predicts. On the other hand, very low interest rates tend to discourage IPOs, and this may be why the 1950s and 1960s contained few IPOs.'] [' The IPOs of the Electricity/Internal Combustion revolution created more lasting value than the IPOs of the IT revolution. Stock-market data point to two explanations for this. First, computer prices have been falling much faster than did those of electricity and internal combustion in the 1890-1930 period, and so the value of each generation of computer-intensive entrants is reduced by later entrants. And, second, the pre-1973 vintages reacted to the microcomputer relatively quickly, perhaps because the threat of being taken over is now higher than it was 70-100 years ago. (JEL: O3, N2) Copyright (c) 2003 The European Economic Association.'] ['Boyan Jovanovic is professor of Economics at New York University and visiting professor of Economics at the University of Chicago. His work evolves, among other topics, around industrial organization, especially technology adoption.'] ["We model Moore's Law as efficiency of computer producers that rises as a by-product of their experience. We find that (a) because computer prices fall much faster than the prices of electricity-driven and diesel-driven capital ever did, growth in the coming decades should be very fast, and that (b) the obsolescence of firms today occurs faster than before, partly because the physical capital they own becomes obsolete faster. (Copyright: Elsevier)"] ['We develop a dynamic model with knowledge spillovers in production. The model contains two opposing forces. Imitation of other firms helps followers catch up with leaders, but the prospect of doing so makes followers want to free ride. The second force dominates and creates permanent inequality. We show that the greater are the average spillovers and the easier they are to obtain, the greater is the free-riding and inequality. More directed copying raises inequality by raising the free-riding advantages of hanging back. Using Compustat and patent-citation data we find that copying is highly undirected.'] ["The Q-theory of investment says that a firm's investment rate should rise with its Q. We argue here that this theory also explains why some firms buy other firms. We find that 1. A firm's merger and acquisition (M&amp;A;) investment responds to its Q more -- by a factor of 2.6 -- than its direct investment does, probably because M&amp;A; investment is a high fixed cost and a low marginal adjustment cost activity, 2. The typical firm wastes some cash on M&amp;As;, but not on internal investment, i.e., the 'Free-Cash Flow' story works, but explains a small fraction of mergers only, and 3. The merger waves of 1900 and the 1920's, `80s, and `90s were a response to profitable reallocation opportunities, but the `60s wave was probably caused by something else.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['The authors find that supply risk in the market for Treasury bills adds between 10 basis points and 40 basis points to the standard deviation of the T-bill interest rate. The risk will probably increase unless the Fed expands the set of assets that it uses to conduct open market operations.'] ['The Demography of Corporations and Industries (2000) by Glenn R. Carroll and T. Michael Hannan is a welcome addition to a body of empirical analysis of firms and industries that studies the effects of technological change and other changes that occur over time. The book contains a wealth of facts, and some new insights too. It will make useful secondary reading in some graduate courses in economics, and I would recommend it to anyone whose research relates to the concept of creative destruction.'] ['Why did the stock market decline so much in the early 1970s and remain low until the early 1980s? We argue that it was because information technology arrived on the scene and the stock-market incumbents of the day were not ready to implement it. Instead, new firms would bring in the new technology after the mid-1980s. Investors foresaw this in the early 1970s and stock prices fell right away. In our model, new capital destroys old capital, but with a lag. The prospect of this causes the value of the old capital to fall right away.'] ["Firms that entered the stock market in the 1990s were younger than any earlier cohort since World War I. Surprisingly, however, firms that IPO'd at the close of the 19th century were just as young as the companies that are entering today. We argue here that the electrification-era and the IT-era firms came in young because the technologies that they brought in were too productive to be kept out very long. The model assumes that the stage before IPO is a learning period during which the firm refines the idea before committing to it at the IPO stage. The better the idea, the higher is the opportunity cost of a delay in its implementation, and the earlier the firm will have its IPO.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["Since 1968, the ratio of stock market capitalization to GDP has varied by a factor of 5. In 1972, the ratio stood at above unity, but by 1974, it had fallen to 0.45 where it stayed for the next decade. It then began a steady climb, and today it stands above 2. ; We argue that the IT revolution was behind this and, moreover, that the capitalization/GDP ratio is likely to decline and then rise after any major technological shift. The three assumptions that deliver the result are: 1) The IT revolution was anticipated by early 1973; 2) IT was resisted by incumbents, which led their value to fall and 3) Takeovers are an imperfect policing device that allowed many firms to remain inefficient until the mid 1980's. ; We lay out some facts that the IT hypothesis explains, but that some alternative hypotheses - oil-price shocks, increased market volatility, and bubbles - do not."] ["We argue that a firm's organization capital depends on the state of technology when the firm was born and on the technologies that have followed. We estimate vintage effects on the value of firms from 114 years of stock market data. We find: 1) a surprisingly strong upward trend in the stock-market share of the largest firms, 2) a very large quantity of organization capital created by the 1920's vintage, 3) strong indications that the 1970's and 1980's vintages will be followed by more complementary technologies, and 4) major technological change since WW2 in the process by which organization capital is created."] ['When a production process requires two extremely complementary inputs, conventional wisdom holds that a firm would always upgrade them simultaneously. We show, however, that if upgrading each input involves a fixed cost, the firm may upgrade them at different dates, "asynchronously." This insight helps us understand why productivity rises with the age of a plant, why investment in structures is more spiked than equipment investment, and why plants have spare capacity. The bigger point of the paper is that complementarity does not necessarily imply comovement--not even for a single decision maker.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' (Copyright: Elsevier)'] ['We study a monetary in which final goods sell on spot markets, while labor and dividends sell through contracts. Firms and workers confuse absolute and relative price changes: A positive price-level shock makes sellers think they are producing better goods than they really are. They split this apparent windfall with workers who get a higher real wage. Hence, unexpected inflation shifts real income from firms (the principals) to workers (the agents) and thereby lowers stock-returns.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["If machines are indivisible, a vintage capital model must give rise to income inequality. If new machines are always better than old ones and if society cannot provide everyone with a new machine all of the time, inequality will result. I explore this mechanism in detail. If technology resides in machines and if a firm or worker must use just one technology at a time, a variety of machines will be in use, and workers' productivities will differ. This is because not everyone can be given the latest vintage machine all of the time. Inequality thus originates in the limited capacity of the capital goods sector. If machine quality and skill are complements, a worker who is paired with the best machine will acquire more skill, and inequality persists indefinitely. Moreover, if the used equipment market or the process of labor turnover function without frictions, a perfect positive assignment between the quality of labor and of capital can be maintained by a process of continual reassignment. This serves to enhance the degree of equilibrium inequality. Paradoxically, in this type of model, free migration of labor across borders raises cross-country inequality instead of lowering it as it does in some other models. (Copyright: Elsevier)"] ["People at the top of an occupational ladder earn more partly because they have spent time on lower rungs, where they have learned something. But what precisely do they learn? There are two contrasting views: First, the Bandit model assumes that people are different, that experience reveals their characteristics, and that consequently an occupational switch can result. Second, in our Stepping Stone model, experience raises a worker's productivity on a given task and the acquired skill can in part be transferred to other occupations, and this prompts movement. Safe activities (where mistakes destroy less output) are a natural training ground.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [" Micreconomic data show two important facts about new products. First, some products are more important than others. Second, it takes them years to penetrate the market significantly. The authors' calibrated model with these features overpredicts the autocovariance of U.S. GNP at long lags but underpredicts it at short lags. The latter is not surprising since the model leaves out other obvious high-frequency shocks. The puzzle is why the U.S. GNP data do not show stronger autocorrelation at higher lags. A surprising finding is that, while the speed of diffusion has huge level effects, it plays a minor role in shaping the business cycle. Copyright 1997 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association."] ['A constitution remains in force so long as no party wishes to defect to the non-cooperative situation, and it is reinstituted as soon as each party finds it to its advantage to revert to cooperation. It is the rich, and not the poor segments of society who in our model pose the greater threat to the stability of the social order.'] [' In a Bayesian model of learning, the more an agent uses a technology, the better he learns its parameters. This expertise is a form of human capital. Switching to a new technology temporarily reduces expertise: the bigger the leap, the bigger the loss. This may prevent the agent from climbing the technological ladder too fast. Someone skilled may want to stick to his technology and experience no growth in the long run. But someone less skilled may want to switch technologies over and over again and, therefore, enjoy long-run growth in output. Thus, the model can give rise to overtaking. Copyright 1996 by The Econometric Society.'] ["Most of our productive knowledge was handed down to us by previous generations. The transfer of knowledge from the old to the young is therefore a cornerstone of productivity growth. We study this process in a model in which the old sell knowledge to the young - - old workers train the young, and charge them for this service. We take an information-theoretic approach in which training occurs if a young agent watches an old worker perform a task. This assumption has plenty of empirical support -- in their first three months on the job, young workers spend about five times as long watching others work as they do in formal training programs. Equilibrium is not constrained Pareto optimal. The old have private information, and this gives rise to an adverse selection problem: some old agents manage to sell skills that the young would not buy (if only they knew exactly what they were buying). We derive the implications for the lifetime of technological lines, and we show that the model generates a negative relation between a firm's productivity and its probability of failure.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [" This paper studies the evolution of a competitive industry in which a fixed number of firms reduce costs by innovating and by imitating their rivals' technologies. As the firms' technologies gradually improve, industry output expands and price falls. Technological leaders tend to rely on innovations to reduce their costs, whereas the laggards rely more on imitation. Imitation causes technology to spread from the leaders to the followers and forces some convergence of technology among firms as the industry matures. This convergence is accompanied by faster growth of smaller firms and a consequent tightening of the distribution of output over firms. Copyright 1994 by University of Chicago Press."] ['Was the Great Depression the outcome of a massive coordination failure? Or was it a unique equilibrium response to adverse shocks? More generally, do aggregates fluctuate partly because agents occasionally settle on inferior, low-level equilibria? These questions lie at the heart of the current disagreement over how one should view business cycles. This paper estimates an employment model with monetary and real shocks. In one region of the parameter-space the model yields uniqueness, while in the other it yields up to three equilibria. When more than one equilibrium exists, a selection rule is needed. The equilibrium selection rule that we use has a Markovian structure, but the money supply is denied a coordination role -- it can not affect the choice of the equilibrium point. The global maximum likelihood estimates lie in the uniqueness region, implying that instead of being a low-level, coordination-failure equilibrium, the Depression era was caused by movements in fundamentals only. This result held for each of the three subperiods (since 1900) for which the estimation was done, but the estimates are imprecise and the conclusions that we draw from them are tentative. The paper also computes the local maxima in the region of multiplicity, and here some of our estimates indicate that the years 1932 and 1933 would have exhibited low level equilibria had more than one equilibrium existed.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Firm numbers first rise, then later fall, as an industry evolves. This nonmonotonicity is explained using a competitive model in which innovation opportunities fuel entry and relative failure to innovate prompts exit; equilibrium time paths for price and quantity also share features of the data. The model is estimated using data from the U.S. automobile tire industry, a particularly dramatic example of the nonmonotonicity in firm numbers. Copyright 1994 by University of Chicago Press.'] [" Evidence suggests the volatility of stock prices cannot be accounted for by information about future dividends. The authors argue that some of the volatility of stock prices in excess of fundamentals results from fluctuations in the amount of public information over time. Their model assumes that dividends and consumption are constant in the aggregate but that there are good firms and bad firms whose identity may be unknown to the public, as in George Akerlof's (1970) 'lemons' problem. In that case, the collective valuation of the constant dividend stream depends on the degree of informational asymmetry. Copyright 1994 by Oxford University Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper tackles two puzzles: the high empirical elasticity of aggregte output with respect to the measured capital input and the seemingly high variability of growth rates over countries in the medium run. We find that one need not invoke increasing returns or externalities to capital to explain these two puzzles. Rather, they are consistent with a constant-returns-to-scale aggregate production function, so long as the exogenous Solow residual process has enough persistence in it. In our model, causality runs exclusively from knowledge to capital, and therefore the apparent absence of an external effect to the capital input says nothing about the importance of spillovers in the creation of knowledge. Copyright 1991 by American Economic Association.'] [' This paper endogenizes the frequency of major discoveries and the extent of their refinement. Four axioms deliver a one-parameter family of beliefs that guide exploratory effort. Such effort trades off the prospect of major new discovery against the chance of successfully refining discoveries made in the past. The only other parameter is the cost of making new discoveries relative to the cost of refining old ones. The paper derives time-series properties of inventive activity as they relate to the two parameters, and it discusses several specific inventions and their subsequent refinement. Copyright 1990 by The Econometric Society.'] [" This paper develops a model of sectoral labor mobility and tests its main implications. The model nests two distinct hypotheses on the origin of mobility: (1) sectoral shocks and (2) worker-employer mismatch. We estimate the relative importance of each hypothesis and find that the bulk of labor mobility is caused by mismatch rather than by sectoral shift. We then try to put a value on society's match--specific information. That is, we ask to what extent the availability of the option to change jobs raises GNP. We find that the mobility option raises expected earnings by roughly between 8.5 percent and 13 percent of labor earnings, which translates to an increase in GNP of between 6 percent and 9 percent. Copyright 1990 by University of Chicago Press."] [' A paradigm is presented in which both the extent of financial intermediation and the rate of economic growth are endogenously determined. Financial intermediation promotes growth because it allows a higher rate of return to be earned on capital, and growth in turn provides the means to implement costly financial structures. This financial intermediation and economic growth are inextricably linked in accord with the Goldsmith-McKinnon-Shaw view on economic development. The model also generates a development cycle reminiscent of the Kuznets hypotheses. In particular, in the transition from a primitive slow-growing economy to a developed fast-growing one, a nation passes through a stage in which the distribution of wealth across the rich and poor widens. Copyright 1990 by University of Chicago Press.'] [" This paper analyzes a decentralized process for the diffusion of knowledge. In equilibrium, the economy converges from an initial distribution of knowledge over agents to the steady-state distribution, which is unique. Because of the public good aspect of information, too little learning takes place and ideas are implemented too early. The key difference between earlier formulation of search externalities by P. Diamond (1982), D. T. Mortensen (1982), and M. Spence (1984) on the one hand, and the authors' own on the other, is that here spillovers of knowledge depend not only on how hard people are trying, but also on the differences in what they know; if all of us know the same thing, we cannot learn from each other. The model also addresses the following two substantive questions: first, the relationship between inequality and growth, noted some time ago by S. Kuznets (1955), and second, the effect on growth of improvements in the communication technology. Copyright 1989 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited."] [" Is the capitalist function distinct from the entrepreneurial function in modern economies? Or does a person have to be wealthy before he or she can start a business? Frank H. Knight and Joseph A. Schumpeter held different views on the answer to this question. The authors' empirical findings side with Knight: liquidity constraints bind, and a would-be entrepreneur must bear most of the risk inherent in his venture. The reasoning is roughly this: the data show that wealthier people are more inclined to become entrepreneurs. In principle, this could be so because the wealthy tend to make better entrepreneurs, but the data reject this explanation. Instead, the data point to liquidity constraints: capital is essential for starting a business, and liquidity constraints tend to exclude those with insufficient funds at their disposal. Copyright 1989 by University of Chicago Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Early entry has the advantage of higher revenues per unit of output early on. Late entry has the benefit of learning from the experience of earlier entrants, and hence lower production costs. The advantages are balanced off in a continuous-time, perfect-foresight equilibrium. Competition generates S-shaped diffusion, and staggered entry and exit. A monopolist will innovate less than a competitive industry, but the innovation that he does do, he will do sooner. Copyright 1989 by American Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Labor mobility may be caused by shifts in the derived demand for labor on the part of firms or s ectors, or it may be caused by mismatches between workers and their j obs. Both reasons may be important, and this paper merges them into o ne model. It explores the consequences for (1) wage-tenure relationsh ips and (2) the issue of sluggishness of wages caused by the implied selectivity of workers into preferred jobs and sectors. Copyright 1988 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] [" This paper explores a model of innovation and spatial co mpetition over time. A key implication of the paper is that firms' size is posit ively autocorrelated across time. The mechanism that generates this persistence works only in heterogenous product markets and is based on the idea that larger firms possess better information about the design of future products. Some corro borating evidence is cited. Copyright 1987 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited."] [' This paper presents a model that generates procyclical search, procyclical labor productivity, and countercyclical unemployment broadly consistent with the actual behavior of these time series. Concretely, the model introduces an aggregate shock into the sectoral demand-shift model of the type analyzed by Robert Lucas and Edward Prescott. If aggregate shocks operate multiplicatively and are autocorrelated, the payoff to unemployed search can be procyclical to an extent large enough to offset the productive losses associated with search that also are procyclical. Copyright 1987 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This article is about disclosure of quality. The question that it seeks to answer is: Does the free market offer enough incentive for business to disclose? The article concludes that whether information is of purely private value or not, more than the socially-optimal amount of disclosure takes place. The optimal policy is for the government to subsidize sale without disclosure. The article offers no support for the policy of mandatory disclosure. The results should be viewed with care, however, as they seem to depend on special features of the model, in particular the assumed impossibility of misrepresentation.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Models of firms' location in new markets, and certain repeated games have the feature that players must make location decisions (either in geographical space or in product-characteristics space) in an uncertain environment and without the precise knowledge of where other entrants will locate. This article presents a noncooperative equilibrium in which entrants locate rationally in the light of information available to them. This equilibrium is similar in spirit to the type of equilibrium used in the auction literature by Wilson (1977), Matthews (1979), and Holt (1979). The main difference is that in the location game players are not in a win-or-lose situation, but rather they have a chance of obtaining a market share anywhere between zero and one."] ["This paper develops a stochastic framework for the analysis of transactions and precautionary demand for money. The analysis is based on the principles of inventory managements and the key feature of the model is its stochastic characteristics which lead to the need for precautionary reserves. The formal solution for optimal money holdings is derived and is shown to depend on the rate of interest, the mean rate of net disbursements, the cost of portfolio adjustment and the variance of the stochastic process governing net disbursements. One solution is obtained by minimizing the present value of financial management. This solution is compared with an alternative that is derived from the more conventional methodology of minimizing the steady-state cost function. The comparison shows that the two approaches may yield solutions that differ significantly from each other. The paper concludes with an application of the model to an empirical examination of countries' holdings of international reserves. The empirical results are shown to be consistent with the predictions of the model.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["A revised version of Jovanovic's model. Given current human capital level, the worker decides how to devide time between investment in human capital and search for other jobs. The probabilty of getting another offer depends on search effort. The worker can always stay in his current job if he wants to. The distribution of new job offers is uniform in the program.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.']