 ['Models of consumer learning and inventory behavior have both proven to be valuable for explaining consumer choice dynamics. In their pure form these models assume consumers solve complex dynamic programming (DP) problems to determine optimal choices. For this reason, these models are best viewed as \xe2\x80\x9cas if\xe2\x80\x9d approximations to consumer behavior. In this paper we present an estimation method, based on Geweke and Keane (2000), which allows us to estimate dynamic models without solving a DP problem and without strong assumptions about how consumers form expectations about the future. The relatively low computational burden of this method allows us to nest the learning and inventory models. We also incorporate the \xe2\x80\x9cprice consideration\xe2\x80\x9d mechanism of Ching et al. (2009), which essentially says that consumers may not pay attention to a category in every period. The resulting model may be viewed as providing a more \xe2\x80\x9crealistic\xe2\x80\x9d or \xe2\x80\x9cdescriptive\xe2\x80\x9d account of consumer choice behavior.'] ['The allocation of children\xe2\x80\x99s time among different activities may be important for cognitive and noncognitive development. Here, we exploit time use diaries from the Longitudinal Study of Australian Children to study the effects of time allocation. By doing so, we characterize the trade-off between different activities to which a child is exposed. On the one hand, our results suggest that time spent in educational activities, particularly with parents, is the most productive input for cognitive skill development. On the other hand, noncognitive skills appear insensitive to alternative time allocations. Instead, they are greatly affected by the mother\xe2\x80\x99s parenting style.'] ['We develop an equilibrium model of the US labor market, fit to Panel Study of Income Dynamics data from 1968\xe2\x80\x9396. Our main innovation is a finer differentiation of types of labor than in prior work (i.e., by occupation, education, gender, and age). This lets us fit wage and employment patterns better than simpler models. We obtain a good fit to wages and occupational choices over the 29-year period while also explaining college attendance rates. We use the model to assess factors driving changes in the wage structure. Occupational demand shifts and shifts in demand for college labor and female labor within occupations are key factors.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["One of the core goals of a universal health care system is to eliminate discrimination on the basis of socioeconomic status. We test for discrimination using patient waiting times for non-emergency treatment in public hospitals. Waiting time should reflect patients\xe2\x80\x99 clinical need with priority given to more urgent cases. Using data from Australia, we find evidence of prioritisation of the most socioeconomically advantaged patients at all quantiles of the waiting time distribution. These patients also benefit from variation in supply endowments. These results challenge the universal health system's core principle of equitable treatment."] ['Access to elective surgery in Australian public hospitals is rationed using waiting lists. In this paper we undertake a DiNardo-Fortin-Lemieux reweighting approach to attribute variation in waiting time to clinical need or to discrimination. Using data from NSW public patients in 2004-2005, we find the discrimination effect dominates clinical need especially in the upper tail of the waiting time distribution. We find evidence of favourable treatment of patients who reside in remote areas and discrimination in favour of patients residing in particular Area Health Services. These findings have policy implications for the design of equitable quality targets for public hospitals.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The response of aggregate labor supply to various changes in the economic environment is central to many economic issues, especially the optimal design of tax policies. Conventional wisdom based on studies in the 1980s and 1990s has long held that the analysis of micro data leads one to conclude that aggregate labor supply elasticities are quite small. In this paper we argue that this conventional wisdom does not hold up to empirically reasonable and relevant extensions of simple life cycle models that served as the basis for these conclusions. In particular, we show that several pieces of conventional wisdom fail in the presence of human capital accumulation or labor supply decisions that allow for adjustment along both the extensive and intensive margin. We conclude that previous estimates of small labor supply elasticities based on micro data are fully consistent with large aggregate labor supply elasticities. (JEL D91, E24, J22)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We evaluate the effect of child care versus maternal time inputs on child cognitive development using single mothers from the NLSY79. To deal with nonrandom selection of children into child care, we exploit the exogenous variation in welfare policy rules facing single mothers. In particular, the 1996 welfare reform and earlier state-level policy changes generated substantial increases in their work/child care use. We construct a comprehensive set of welfare policy variables and use them as instruments to estimate child cognitive ability production functions. In our baseline specification, we estimate that a year of child care reduces child test scores by 2.1%.'] ['I survey the male and female labor supply literatures, focusing on implications for effects of wages and taxes. For males, I describe and contrast results from three basic types of model: static models (especially those that account for nonlinear taxes), life-cycle models with savings, and life-cycle models with both savings and human capital. For women, more important distinctions are whether models include fixed costs of work, and whether they treat demographics like fertility and marriage (and human capital) as exogenous or endogenous. The literature is characterized by considerable controversy over the responsiveness of labor supply to changes in wages and taxes. At least for males, it is fair to say that most economists believe labor supply elasticities are small. But a sizable minority of studies that I examine obtain large values. Hence, there is no clear consensus on this point. In fact, a simple average of Hicks elasticities across all the studies I examine is 0.31. Several simulation studies have shown that such a value is large enough to generate large efficiency costs of income taxation. For males, I conclude that two factors drive many of the differences in results across studies. One factor is use of direct versus ratio wage measures, with studies that use the former tending to find larger elasticities. Another factor is the failure of most studies to account for human capital returns to work experience. I argue that this may lead to downward bias in elasticity estimates. In a model that includes human capital, I show how even modest elasticities\xe2\x80\x94as conventionally measured\xe2\x80\x94can be consistent with large efficiency costs of taxation. For women, in contrast, it is fair to say that most studies find large labor supply elasticities, especially on the participation margin. In particular, I find that estimates of "long-run" labor supply elasticities\xe2\x80\x94by which I mean estimates that allow for dynamic effects of wages on fertility, marriage, education and work experience\xe2\x80\x94are generally quite large. ( JEL D91, J13, J16, J22, J31, H24)'] ['We assess the impact of a variety of policies that may influence the career decisions of members of the US Congress. These policies alter incentives to run for re-election, run for higher office or leave Congress, by altering wages, non-pecuniary rewards and career prospects (both in and out of Congress). We find that the effect of most policies varies considerably across different types of politicians. For example, a reduction in the congressional wage would disproportionately induce exit from Congress by "skilled" politicians, Democrats, and politicians who were relatively young when first elected, but not by politicians who most value legislative accomplishments ("achievers"). (JEL D72)'] [" This article develops a simulation estimation algorithm that is particularly useful for estimating dynamic panel data models with unobserved endogenous state variables. Repeated sampling experiments on dynamic probit models with serially correlated errors indicate the estimator has good small sample properties. We apply the estimator to a model of female labor supply and show that the rarely used Polya model fits the data substantially better than the popular Markov model. The Polya model also produces far less state dependence and many fewer race effects and much stronger effects of education, young children, and husband's income on female labor supply decisions."] ['In this paper I attempt to lay out the sources of conflict between the so-called "structural" and "experimentalist" camps in econometrics. Critics of the structural approach often assert that it produces results that rely on too many assumptions to be credible, and that the experimentalist approach provides an alternative that relies on fewer assumptions. Here, I argue that this is a false dichotomy. All econometric work relies heavily on a priori assumptions. The main difference between structural and experimental (or "atheoretic") approaches is not in the number of assumptions but the extent to which they are made explicit.'] [' Using data from the NLSY79, we structurally estimate a dynamic model of the life cycle decisions of young women. The women make sequential joint decisions about school attendance, work, marriage, fertility, and welfare participation. We use the model to perform counterfactual simulations designed to shed light on three questions: (1) How much of observed minority-majority differences in behavior can be attributed to differences in labor market opportunities, marriage market opportunities, and preference heterogeneity? (2) How does the welfare system interact with these factors to augment those differences? (3) How can new cohorts that grow up under the new welfare system (Temporary Aid for Needy Families) be expected to behave compared to older cohorts? Copyright (2010) by the Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] ["This article evaluates the effects of maternal vs. alternative care providers' time inputs on children's cognitive development using the sample of single mothers in the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth. To deal with the selection problem created by unobserved heterogeneity of mothers and children, we develop a model of mother's employment and childcare decisions. We then obtain approximate decision rules for employment and childcare use, and estimate these jointly with the child's cognitive ability production function. To help identify our selection model, we take advantage of the plausibly exogenous variation in employment and childcare choices of single mothers generated by the variation in welfare rules across states and over time created by the 1996 welfare reform legislation and earlier State waivers."] ['What has always bothered me about the "experimentalist" school is the false sense of certainty it conveys. My view, like Leamer\'s, is that there is no way to escape the role of assumptions in statistical work, so our conclusions will always be contingent. Hence, we should be circumspect about our degree of knowledge. I present some lessons for economics from the field of marketing, a field where broad consensus has been reached on many key issues over the past twenty years. In marketing, 1) the structural paradigm is dominant, 2) the data are a lot better than in some fields of economics, and 3) there is great emphasis on external validation. Of course, good data always helps. I emphasize that the ability to do controlled experiments does not obviate the need for theory, and finally I address different approaches to model validation.'] ['The mixed or heterogeneous multinomial logit (MIXL) model has become popular in a number of fields, especially marketing, health economics, and industrial organization. In most applications of the model, the vector of consumer utility weights on product attributes is assumed to have a multivariate normal (MVN) distribution in the population. Thus, some consumers care more about some attributes than others, and the IIA property of multinomial logit (MNL) is avoided (i.e., segments of consumers will tend to switch among the subset of brands that possess their most valued attributes). The MIXL model is also appealing because it is relatively easy to estimate. Recently, however, some researchers have argued that the MVN is a poor choice for modelling taste heterogeneity. They argue that much of the heterogeneity in attribute weights is accounted for by a pure scale effect (i.e., across consumers, all attribute weights are scaled up or down in tandem). This implies that choice behaviour is simply more random for some consumers than others (i.e., holding attribute coefficients fixed, the scale of their error term is greater). This leads to a \xe2\x80\x9cscale heterogeneity\xe2\x80\x9d MNL model (S-MNL). Here, we develop a generalized multinomial logit model (G-MNL) that nests S-MNL and MIXL. By estimating the S-MNL, MIXL, and G-MNL models on 10 data sets, we provide evidence on their relative performance. We find that models that account for scale heterogeneity (i.e., G-MNL or S-MNL) are preferred to MIXL by the Bayes and consistent Akaike information criteria in all 10 data sets. Accounting for scale heterogeneity enables one to account for \xe2\x80\x9cextreme\xe2\x80\x9d consumers who exhibit nearly lexicographic preferences, as well as consumers who exhibit very \xe2\x80\x9crandom\xe2\x80\x9d behaviour (in a sense we formalize below).'] [' I describe a strategy for structural estimation that uses simulated maximum likelihood (SML) to estimate the structural parameters appearing in a model\'s first-order conditions (FOCs). Generalized method of moments (GMM) is often the preferred method for estimation of FOCs, as it avoids distributional assumptions on stochastic terms, "provided" all structural errors enter the FOCs additively, giving a single composite additive error. But SML has advantages over GMM in models where multiple structural errors enter the FOCs nonadditively. I develop new simulation algorithms required to implement SML based on FOCs, and I illustrate the method using a model of U.S. multinational corporations. Copyright \xef\xbf\xbd (2009) by the Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] ['The workhorse brand choice models in marketing are the multinomial logit (MNL) and nested multinomial logit (NMNL). These models place strong restrictions on how brand share and purchase incidence price elasticities are related. In this paper, we propose a new model of brand choice, the \xe2\x80\x9cprice consideration\xe2\x80\x9d (PC) model, that allows more flexibility in this relationship. In the PC model, consumers do not observe prices in each period. Every week, a consumer decides whether to consider a category. Only then does he/she look at prices and decide whether and what to buy. Using scanner data, we show the PC model fits much better than MNL or NMNL. Simulations reveal the reason: the PC model provides a vastly superior fit to inter-purchase spells.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The development over the past 25 years of methods for the estimation of discrete choice dynamic programming (DCDP) models opened up new frontiers for empirical research in a host of areas, including labor economics, industrial organization, economic demography, health economics, development economics, political economy and marketing. In this paper, we first describe the development of the DCDP framework, showing how it was a natural extension of static discrete choice modeling. We then summarize six papers that adopt the DCDP paradigm that address substantively important social and economic questions. Finally, we consider the issue of the credibility of empirical findings based on the structural estimation of DCDP models. (Copyright: Elsevier)'] ['The inter-generational correlation of education in the U.S. is tremendous. For instance, in PSID data from 1990, young males with college-educated parents had a 70% chance of attending college. But those with high school drop-out parents had only a 15% chance. In this paper, we analyze the impact of college attendance bonus schemes designed to increase college attendance rates (and PV of lifetime income) of youth from disadvantaged backgrounds. Of course, policies that increase the supply of skilled labor may reduce the college wage premium (see Heckman et al. [Heckman, James, Lochner, Lance and Taber, Christopher, Explaining rising wage inequality: explorations with a dynamic equilibrium model of labor earnings with heterogeneous agents, Review of Economic Dynamics, 1 (1998a), 1-58; Heckman, James, Lochner, Lance and Taber, Christopher, General-equilibrium treatment effects: a study of tuition policy, American Economic Review, 88:2 (1998b), 381-386]). This may have the unintended consequence of wiping out most of the gains to the targeted groups. The strength of such equilibrium effects on wages depends on the substitutability between different types of labor. Thus, it is important to evaluate education subsidies within an equilibrium framework that allows for flexible patterns of substitution across factor inputs. This is exactly what we do here, using an overlapping generations equilibrium model of the U.S. labor market fit to PSID data from 1968 to 1996. The model allows for imperfect substitution among types of labor differentiated by education, gender, age and ten (1-digit level) occupations -- a much finer differentiation than has been considered in prior work. We find that very large college attendance bonuses are necessary to equate college attendance rates between youth whose parents had only high school degrees or were high school dropouts and youth whose parents attended at least some college. The size of these bonuses far exceeds any reasonable measure of college costs; suggesting the "costs" the bonuses overcome are primarily psychic or effort costs. For example, youth from disadvantaged backgrounds may be poorly prepared for college. This suggests that bonuses targeted at college age youth are probably a very inefficient way to reduce inequality. Earlier intervention is likely called for.'] [" Two key issues in the literature on female labor supply are (i) whether persistence in employment status is due to unobserved heterogeneity or state dependence, and (ii) whether fertility is exogenous to labor supply. Until recently, the consensus was that unobserved heterogeneity is very important and fertility is endogenous. Hyslop (1999) challenged this. Using a dynamic panel probit model of female labor supply including heterogeneity and state dependence, he found that adding autoregressive errors led to a substantial diminution in the importance of heterogeneity. This, in turn, meant he could not reject that fertility is exogenous. Here, we extend Hyslop (1999) to allow classification error in employment status, using an estimation procedure developed by Keane and Wolpin (2001) and Keane and Sauer (2005). We find that a fairly small amount of classification error is enough to overturn Hyslop's conclusions, leading to overwhelming rejection of the hypothesis of exogenous fertility. Copyright 2009 The Econometric Society."] ["Using confidential firm-level data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) on activities of U.S. multinational corporations (MNCs) and their Canadian affiliates, we study the dramatic growth of intra-firm and arm's-length U.S.-Canada trade over the 1984-95 period. We find that decisions to engage in intra-firm and arm's-length trade are essentially unrelated to tariff and transport cost reductions over this sample period. Thus, we find that the increase in trade occurred almost entirely on the intensive rather than the extensive margin. This is consistent with case study evidence in Keane and Feinberg (2006), where MNC executives consistently indicate that the modest tariff reductions of the 1984-95 period were not sufficient to justify fixed costs of overhauling international supply chains. Our results have important implications for recent influential models of international trade that rely on sensitivity of intra-firm trade to tariffs at the extensive margin to explain how small tariff declines could have led to the explosion of intra-firm trade since the 1980s. We also find that initial conditions (i.e., 1983 tariffs) are uncorrelated with whether firms engaged in intra-firm or arm's-length trade activity at the start of the sample period. This result is surprising as it implies that firms/industries with a greater propensity to engage in trade were not, in general, successful at lobbying for more favourable tariff treatment."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In this paper, we develop a structural model of household behavior in an environment where there is uncertainty about brand attributes and both prices and advertising signal brand quality. Four quality signaling mechanisms are at work: (1) price signals quality, (2) advertising frequency signals quality, (3) advertising content provides direct (but noisy) information about quality, and (4) use experience provides direct (but noisy) information about quality. We estimate our proposed model using scanner panel data on ketchup. If price is important as a signal of brand quality, then frequent price promotion may have the unintended consequence of reducing brand equity. We use our estimated model to measure the importance of such effects. Our results imply that price is an important quality-signaling mechanism and that frequent price cuts can have significant adverse effects on brand equity. The role of advertising frequency in signaling quality is also significant, but it is less quantitatively important than price. In the printed version of , Vol. 27, No. 6, Erdem et al. (2008) was mistakenly identified as a Research Note. It is a regular article and has been corrected here and in the online table of contents.'] [' We provide evidence of advantageous selection in the Medigap insurance market and analyze its sources. Conditional on controls for Medigap prices, those with Medigap spend, on average, $4,000 less on medical care than those without. But if we condition on health, those with Medigap spend $2,000 more. The sources of this advantageous selection include income, education, longevity expectations, and financial planning horizons, as well as cognitive ability. Conditional on all these factors, those with higher expected medical expenditures are more likely to purchase Medigap. Risk preferences do not appear as a source of advantageous selection; cognitive ability is particularly important. (c) 2008 by The University of Chicago. All rights reserved..'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' A particularly challenging use of decision-theoretic models in economics is to forecast the impact of large changes in the environment. The problem we explore in this article is how to gain confidence in a model\'s ability to predict the impact of such large changes. We show that an approach to validation and model selection that includes the choice of a "nonrandom holdout sample," a sample that differs significantly from the estimation sample along the policy dimension that the model is meant to forecast, can be fruitful. Copyright 2007 by the Economics Department Of The University Of Pennsylvania And Osaka University Institute Of Social And Economic Research Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Intra-firm trade in intermediates between U.S. multinational parents (MNCs) and their Canadian manufacturing affiliates increased dramatically in the 1984-1995 period (i.e., it roughly doubled). Tariff and transport cost declines were far too small to explain this phenomenon. But we show that the advent of improved logistics management practices, including the 'just-in-time' (JIT) production system, can explain much of the growth of intra-firm trade. JIT lowers the inventory carrying cost component of intra-firm trade, and, by 1984, this was more important than tariff and transport costs in many industries. We combine regression analysis with numerous case studies to draw our conclusions. Copyright 2007 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.."] ['This paper documents that inequality in labor earnings increased substantially during the economic transition in Poland. One surprising result is that earnings inequality increased markedly in both the private and public sectors, indicating that even state-owned enterprises in Poland moved toward competitive wage setting during the transition. Education premia increased sharply, while experience premia declined. Increases in within-group inequality account for about 60 percent of the increase in overall wage inequality. But, contrary to the experience of countries like the United States, increases in within-group inequality in Poland were very different across skill groups, with much larger increases for highly educated workers.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['In recent decades, U.S. foreign trade grew much faster than GDP, but there is no consensus why. Notably lacking is an understanding of the role of multinational corporations (MNCs), which mediate over half of world trade. We use Bureau of Economic Analysis data on U.S. MNCs to study the rapid growth of MNC-based trade from 1983 to 1996. Using a model of U.S. MNCs and Canadian affiliates, we decompose this growth by source. Tariff reductions can largely explain increases in arms-length MNC-based trade. But intra-firm trade growth is attributed mostly to ?technical change.? We present additional evidence suggesting just-in-time production facilitated intra-firm trade. (JEL F13, F14, F23)'] [' We explore issues in theory-driven choice modeling by focusing on partial-equilibrium models of dynamic structural demand with forward-looking decision-makers, full equilibrium models that integrate the supply side, integration of bounded rationality in dynamic structural models of choice and public policy implications of these models. Copyright Springer Science + Business Media, Inc. 2005'] ['Our main goal is to quantify the returns to a career in the United States Congress. We specify a dynamic model of career decisions of a member of Congress and estimate this model using a newly collected dataset. Given estimates of the structural model, we assess reelection probabilities, estimate the effect of congressional experience on private and public sector wages, and quantify the value of a congressional seat. Moreover, we assess how an increase in the congressional wage or the imposition of term limits would affect the career decisions of politicians and the returns from a career in Congress.'] [' We estimate a dynamic model of how consumers learn about and choose between different brands of personal computers (PCs). To estimate the model, we use a panel data set that contains the search and purchase behavior of a set of consumers who were in the market for a PC. The data includes the information sources visited each period, search durations, as well as measures of price expectations and stated attitudes toward the alternatives during the search process. Our model extends recent work on estimation of Bayesian learning models of consumer choice behavior in environments characterized by uncertainty by estimating a model of active learning\xe2\x80\x94i.e., a model in which consumers make optimal sequential decisions about how much information to gather prior to making a purchase. Also, following the suggestion of Manski (2003), we use our data on price expectations to model consumers\xe2\x80\x99 price expectation process, and, following the suggestion of McFadden (1989a), we incorporate the stated brand quality information into our likelihood function, rather than modeling only revealed preference data. Our analysis sheds light on how consumer forward-looking price expectations and the process of learning about quality influence the consumer choice process. A key finding is that estimates of dynamic price elasticities of demand exceed estimates that ignore the expectations effect by roughly 50%. This occurs because our estimated expectations formation process implies that consumers expect mean reversion in price changes. This enhances the impact of a temporary price cut. Finally, while our work focuses specifically on the PC market, the modeling approach we develop here may be useful for studying a wide range of high-tech, high-involvement durable goods markets where active learning is important. Copyright Springer Science + Business Media, Inc. 2005'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Using the Benchmark and Annual Surveys of U.S. Direct Investment Abroad collected by the Bureau of Economic Analysis, the authors examine the operations of U.S. multinational corporations (MNCs) in seven manufacturing industries and twenty-two countries over the years 1982-91. They analyze how tariffs, wages, and industrial relations environments influenced U.S. MNCs\xe2\x80\x99 decisions about where to locate assets and employment. The results imply that wages and the industrial relations environment were statistically significant determinants of the extent to which MNCs located operations in a particular host country. However, while these factors were important, their impact was much smaller than that of host country market size, which was by far the main determinant of MNC location decisions. Furthermore, the authors find no evidence that tariff reductions increased the share of U.S. MNC activities located abroad. Thus, concerns that tariff reductions may lead to loss of \xe2\x80\x9cAmerican jobs\xe2\x80\x9d appear to be exaggerated. (Free full-text download available at http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/ilrreview/.)'] [' Different people may use different strategies, or decision rules, when solving complex decision problems. We provide a new Bayesian procedure for drawing inferences about the nature and number of decision rules present in a population, and use it to analyze the behaviors of laboratory subjects confronted with a difficult dynamic stochastic decision problem. Subjects practiced before playing for money. Based on money round decisions, our procedure classifies subjects into three types, which we label "Near Rational,""Fatalist," and "Confused." There is clear evidence of continuity in subjects\' behaviors between the practice and money rounds: types who performed best in practice also tended to perform best when playing for money. However, the agreement between practice and money play is far from perfect. The divergences appear to be well explained by a combination of type switching (due to learning and/or increased effort in money play) and errors in our probabilistic type assignments. Copyright The Econometric Society 2004.'] [' We solve and estimate a dynamic model that allows agents to optimally choose their labor hours and consumption and that allows for both human capital accumulation and savings. Estimation results and simulation exercises indicate that the intertemporal elasticity of substitution is much higher than the conventional estimates and the downward bias comes from the omission of the human capital accumulation effect. The human capital accumulation effect renders the life-cycle path of the shadow wage relatively flat, even though wages increase with age. Hence, a rather flat life-cycle labor supply path can be reconciled with a high intertemporal elasticity of substitution. Copyright 2004 by the Economics Department Of The University Of Pennsylvania And Osaka University Institute Of Social And Economic Research Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We develop a model of household demand for frequently purchased consumer goods that are branded, storable and subject to stochastic price fluctuations. Our framework accounts for how inventories and expectations of future prices affect current period purchase decisions. We estimate our model using scanner data for the ketchup category. Our results indicate that price expectations and the nature of the price process have important effects on demand elasticities. Long-run cross price elasticities of demand are more than twice as great as short-run cross price elasticities. Temporary price cuts (or \xe2\x80\x9cdeals\xe2\x80\x9d) primarily generate purchase acceleration and category expansion, rather than brand switching. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 2003'] [' This paper analyzes the evolution of inequality in Poland during the economic transition that began in 1989-1990. Using microdata from the Household Budget Surveys, we find that, after a brief spike in 1989, income and consumption inequality actually declined to below pretransition levels during 1990-1992 and then increased gradually, rising only moderately above pretransition levels by 1997. In sharp contrast, inequality in labor earnings increased markedly and consistently throughout the 1990-1997 period. We find that social transfer mechanisms, including pensions, played an important role in mitigating increases in both overall inequality and poverty. We argue that, from a political economy perspective, transfer mechanisms were well designed to reduce political resistance to market-oriented reforms in the early years of transition, paving the way for rapid growth. Finally, we provide crosscountry evidence from the transition economies that is consistent with our interpretation of the Polish experience and is also consistent with recent work in growth theory suggesting that redistribution that reduces inequality can enhance growth. \xc2\xa9 2002 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In this paper, we provide estimates of welfare benefit effects on a set of behaviors that includes welfare participation, fertility, marriage, work and schooling using approximations to the decision rules that would be derived from an explicit dynamic optimization problem. We use the stylized model and associated simulations from Part I as a guide in specifying the approximate decision rules that we estimate here. The estimates are based on data from the 1979 youth cohort of the National Longitudinal Surveys of Labor Market Experience (NLSY79).'] ['An extensive literature in economics seeks to determine the quantitative impact of welfare benefits on economic and demographic behaviors. Most studies adopt a static choice framework to motivate their empirical specifications. The behaviors that are studied, however, have both immediate and long-term consequences. If potential welfare recipients are forward looking, they will consider these long-term consequences when making current decisions. In this paper we investigate the implications of the existence of forward-looking behavior for estimation methodology. In the companion paper that follows, we estimate the effect of welfare on those decisions adopting an empirical specification that is consistent with forward-looking behavior and interpretable within that framework.'] [' Using confidential firm-level panel data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis, we examine how the bilateral trade flows of U.S. multinational corporations (MNCs) and their Canadian affiliates responded to U.S.-Canadian tariff reductions from 1983 to 1992. We find that Canadian affiliate sales to the United States are negatively correlated with Canadian tariffs, but U.S. parent sales to Canadian affiliates have little association with Canadian tariffs. These results contradict the notion that Canadian tariff reductions would lead to a "hollowing out" of Canadian manufacturing. We also find substantial heterogeneity in MNC responses to tariff changes within narrowly defined manufacturing industries. Overall, bilateral trade liberalization is trade-creating, as U.S. MNCs integrated their North American production such that Canadian affiliates increased sales to the United States and reduced domestic sales. \xc2\xa9 2000 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' In this article, we provide quantitative evidence on the effects of monetary incentive schemes designed to reduce racial differences in school attainment and earnings. Our analysis is based on the structural estimation of a dynamic model of schooling, work, and occupational choice decisions over the life cycle. We consider two recent proposals that, although not specifically targeted to blacks, can be expected to have differential racial impacts. One proposal, suggested by Robert Reich, provides a high school graduation bonus to youths from lower-income families. The other, suggested by Edmund Phelps, provides wage subsidies to low-wage workers. Copyright 2000 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["The authors examine how U.S. multinational corporations (MNCs) and their Canadian affiliates responded to the substantial bilateral tariff reductions that occurred over the 1983-92 period. Using confidential firm-level data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis, they focus on the MNCs' allocation of employment and capital across Canada and the United States. The authors find that Canadian affiliate employment and assets were negatively correlated with Canadian tariff rates, a pattern that contradicts the notion that Canadian tariff reductions would lead to a 'hollowing out' of Canadian manufacturing. They also find evidence of substantial heterogeneity in MNCs' responses to tariff changes, even within narrowly defined industries."] [' Work on estimating the labor supply effects of high marginal tax rates in welfare programs has been hindered by the difficulty of estimating the effects of participation in multiple welfare programs simultaneously. The authors solve this problem by applying methods of simulation estimation to a model of labor supply and multiple program participation. The results show asymmetric wage and tax rate effects, with fairly large wage elasticities of labor supply but very inelastic responses to moderate changes in cumulative marginal tax rates, implying that high welfare tax rates do not necessarily induce major reductions in work effort. Copyright 1998 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' In frequently-purchased-consumer-goods markets, consumer brand choices exhibit substantial persistence across purchase occasions. In this article, the author estimates a choice model that admits of both heterogeneity in preferences and true state dependence as sources of this persistence, using Nielsen scanner data on ketchup. He finds evidence for true state dependence in the choice process, even after controlling for a rich heterogeneity structure. Simulation of the model indicates that the long-term effect of a promotion-induced purchase on future purchase probabilities is positive but small.'] ['Statistical inference in multinomial multiperiod probit models has been hindered in the past by the high dimensional numerical integrations necessary to form the likelihood functions, posterior distributions, or moment conditions in these models. We describe three alternative approaches to inference that circumvent the integration problem: Bayesian inference using Gibbs sampling and data augmentation to compute posterior moments, simulated maximum likelihood (SML) estimation using the GHK recursive probability simulator, and method of simulated moment (MSM) estimation using the GHK simulator. We perform a set of Monte-Carlo experiments to compare the performance of these approaches. Although all the methods perform reasonably well, some important differences emerge. The root mean square errors (RMSEs) of the SML parameter estimates around the data generating values exceed those of the MSM estimates by 21 percent on average, while the RMSEs of the MSM estimates exceed those of the posterior parameter means obtained via agreement via Gibbs sampling by 18 percent on average. While MSM produces a good agreement between empirical RMSEs and asymptotic standard errors, the RMSEs of the SML estimates exceed the asymptotic standard errors by 28 percent on average. Also, the SML estimates of serial correlation parameters exhibit significant downward bias.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper provides structural estimates of a dynamic model of schooling, work, and occupational choice decisions based on eleven years of observations on a sample of young men from the 1979 youth cohort of the National Longitudinal Surveys of Labor Market Experience (NLSY). The authors find that a suitably extended human capital investment model can in fact do an excellent job of fitting observed data on school attendance, work, occupational choices, and wages in the NLSY data on young men and also produces reasonable forecasts of future work decisions and wage patterns. Copyright 1997 by the University of Chicago.'] [' In this paper, we use micro panel data to examine the effects of oil price changes on employment and real wages, at the aggregate and industry levels. We also measure differences in the employment and wage responses for workers differentiated on the basis of skill level. We find that oil price increases result in a substantial decline in real wages for all workers, but raise the relative wage of skilled workers. The use of panel data econometric techniques to control for unobserved heterogeneity is essential to uncover this result, which is completely hidden in OLS estimates. While the short-run effect of an oil price increase on aggregate employment is negative, the long-run effect is in fact positive. We find that changes in oil prices induce changes in employment shares and relative wages across industries. However, we find little evidence that oil price changes cause labor to consistently flow into those sectors with relative wage increases. Copyright 1996 by MIT Press.'] ["We construct two models of the behavior of consumers in an environment where there is uncertainty about brand attributes. In our models, both usage experience and advertising exposure give consumers noisy signals about brand attributes. Consumers use these signals to update their expectations of brand attributes in a Bayesian manner. The two models are (1) a dynamic model with immediate utility maximization, and (2) a dynamic \xe2\x80\x9cforward-looking\xe2\x80\x9d model in which consumers maximize the expected present value of utility over a planning horizon. Given this theoretical framework, we derive from the Bayesian learning framework how brand choice probabilities depend on past usage experience and advertising exposures. We then form likelihood functions for the models and estimate them on Nielsen scanner data for detergent. We find that the functional forms for experience and advertising effects that we derive from the Bayesian learning framework fit the data very well relative to flexible ad hoc functional forms such as exponential smoothing, and also perform better at out-of-sample prediction. Another finding is that in the context of consumer learning of product attributes, although the forward-looking model fits the data statistically better at conventional significance levels, both models produce similar parameter estimates and policy implications. Our estimates indicate that consumers are risk-averse with respect to variation in brand attributes, which discourages them from buying unfamiliar brands. Using the estimated behavioral models, we perform various scenario evaluations to find how changes in marketing strategy affect brand choice both in the short and long run. A key finding obtained from the policy experiments is that advertising intensity has only weak short run effects, but a strong cumulative effect in the long run. The substantive content of the paper is potentially of interest to academics in marketing, economics and decision sciences, as well as product managers, marketing research managers and analysts interested in studying the effectiveness of marketing mix strategies. Our paper will be of particular interest to those interested in the long run effects of advertising. Note that our estimation strategy requires us to specify explicit behavioral models of consumer choice behavior, derive the implied relationships among choice probabilities, past purchases and marketing mix variables, and then estimate the behavioral parameters of each model. Such an estimation strategy is referred to as \xe2\x80\x9cstructural\xe2\x80\x9d estimation, and econometric models that are based explicitly on the consumer's maximization problem and whose parameters are parameters of the consumers' utility functions or of their constraints are referred to as \xe2\x80\x9cstructural\xe2\x80\x9d models. A key benefit of the structural approach is its potential usefulness for policy evaluation. The parameters of structural models are invariant to policy, that is, they do not change due to a change in the policy. In contrast, the parameters of reduced form brand choice models are, in general, functions of marketing strategy variables (e.g., consumer response to price may depend on pricing policy). As a result, the predictions of reduced form models for the outcomes of policy experiments may be unreliable, because in making the prediction one must assume that the model parameters are unaffected by the policy change. Since the agents in our models choose among many alternative brands, their choice probabilities take the form of higher-order integrals. We employ Monte-Carlo methods to approximate these integrals and estimate our models using simulated maximum likelihood. Estimation of the dynamic forward-looking model also requires that a dynamic programming problem be solved in order to form the likelihood function. For this we use a new approximation method based on simulation and interpolation techniques. These estimation techniques may be of interest to researchers and policy makers in many fields where dynamic choice among discrete alternatives is important, such as marketing, decision sciences, labor and health economics, and industrial organization."] ['This article analyzes several proposals to build work incentives into the U.S. welfare system. It concludes that the most cost effective way to do that is to offer a work subsidy to all low-income single parents\xe2\x80\x94in other words, to simply pay them for working in the labor market. This conclusion is based on a model of the labor force participation behavior of low-income single mothers that the author developed with Robert Moffitt. Among the proposals evaluated in the article, besides the work subsidy, are proposals to reduce the rate that welfare benefits are reduced when welfare recipients work, to provide wage subsidies to low-wage workers, to expand the earned income tax credit, and to subsidize the fixed costs of working.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This research compares several approaches to inference in the multinominal profit model, based on two Monte Carlo experiments for a seven choice model. The methods compared are the simulated maximum likelihood estimator using the GHK recursive probability simulator, the method of simulated moments estimator using the GHK recursive simulator and kernel-smoothed frequency simulators, and posterior means using a Gibbs sampling-data augmentation algorithm. Overall, the Gibbs sampling algorithm has a slight edge, with the relative performance of MSM and SML based on the GHK simulator being difficult to evaluate. The MSM estimator with the kernel-smoothed frequency simulator is clearly inferior. Copyright 1994 by MIT Press.'] [" The author develops a practical extension of D. McFadden's method of simulated moments estimator for limited dependent variable models to the panel data case. The method is based on factorization of the method of simulated moments first order condition into transition probabilities, along with development of an accurate new method for simulating transition probabilities. Monte Carlo tests indicate that this method of simulated moments estimator performs quite well relative to quadrature-based maximum likelihood estimators. It allows estimation of complex panel data models involving random effects and ARMA errors in computational time similar to those necessary for estimation of random effects models via maximum likelihood quadrature. Copyright 1994 by The Econometric Society."] [" Over the past decade, a substantial literature on methods for the estimation of discrete choice dynamic programming (DDP) models of behavior has developed. However, the implementation of these methods can impose major computational burdens because solving for agents' decision rules often involves high dimensional integrations that must be performed at each point in the state space. In this paper we develop an approximate solution method that consists of: (1) using Monte Carlo integration to stimulate the required multiple integrals at a subset of the state points, and (2) interpolating the non-simulated values using a regression function. The overall performance of this approximation method appears to be excellent. Copyright 1994 by MIT Press."] ['This paper uses microeconomic panel data to examine differences in the cyclical variability of employment, hours, and real wages for skilled and unskilled workers. Contrary to conventional wisdom, it finds that, at the aggregate level, skilled and unskilled workers are subject to the same degree of cyclical variation in wages. However, the quality of labor input is found to rise in recessions, inducing a countercyclical bias in aggregate measures of the real wage. The paper also finds substantial differences across industries in the cyclical variation of employment, hours, and wage differentials, indicating important interindustry differences in labor contracting.'] ['Estimates of interindustry wage differentials are obtained using a fixed-effects estimator on a long panel, the National Longitudinal Survey of Young Men (NLS). After controlling for observable worker characteristics, 84 percent of the residual variance of log wages across industries is explained by individual fixed-effects. Only 16 percent of the residual variance is "explained" by industry dummies. Since no controls for specific job characteristics are used, job characteristics that vary across industries could potentially explain this rather small residual across-industry log wage variance that is not attributable to individual effects. Clearly, then, these data do not force us to resort to non-competitive explanations of interindustry wage differentials, such as efficiency wage theory. Furthermore, efficiency wage theories predict that wages in efficiency wage paying (or primary) industries should be relatively rigid. Therefore, industry wage differentials should widen in recessions. However, no such tendency is found in the data.'] [' This paper examines economywide and sector-specific responses of real wages to nominal shocks using micro panel data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Young Men. The observed response patterns provide no support for nominal-contracting theories of unemployment, which predict that nominal surprises should be negatively correlated with real wages. In fact, both inflation and money-growth surprises are found to be essentially uncorrelated with real wages. Either a real-business-cycle model or a model with rigidities in commodity prices could be consistent with these results. Copyright 1993 by American Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Although formal conditions for identification in the multinational probit model are now clearly established, little is known about how various estimable multinational probit specifications perform in practice. This article shows that parameter identification in the multinational probit model is extremely tenuous in the absence of exclusion restrictions. This previously unnoticed fact is important because formal identification of multinational probit models does not require exclusion restrictions, and many potential economic applications of multinational probit are to situations in which exclusion restrictions are not readily available. Thus, failure to be aware of the difficulties present in such situations may lead to reporting of unreliable results.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper tests the rationality of individual price forecasts in a panel of professional forecasters. Here, unlike in most previous studies, rationality is not rejected. The results here differ because (1) using individual forecasts avoids aggregation bias, (2) comparison of forecasts to initial data avoids bias due to data revision, (3) the professional forecasters have economic incentives to state their expectations accurately, and (4) a new covariance matrix estimator consistent when forecast errors are correlated across individuals is used. Copyright 1990 by American Economic Association.'] ["This paper discusses at an undergraduate level how forecast rationality can be tested. It explains that forecasters should correctly use any relevant information they knew in making their predictions. It shows that forecast rationality can be tested by determining whether the forecasters' prediction errors are predictable. After addressing what data and methods can be used for testing rationality, the paper presents tests of the price-forecast rationality of individual professional forecasters. Unlike results of previous studies, the test results show that those forecasters' price predictions appear to be rational."] [' New evidence on the correlation between the cycle and the real wage is provided by using panel data to adjust for the aggregation cum selectivity bias that arises when those who move in and out of the work force over the cycle have systematically different unobserved permanent and transitory wage components than those who do not. The results show that selectivity bias is present, for those with high transitory wages are more likely to lose employment, and that a true, compositio n-constant real wage index moves countercyclically, but less quantitatively than previous estimates using micro data have suggested. Copyright 1988 by University of Chicago Press.']