 ['We estimate the labor market effect of attending a highly selective college, using the College and Beyond Survey linked to Social Security Administration data. We extend earlier work by estimating effects for students that entered college in 1976 over a longer time horizon (from 1983 through 2007) and for a more recent cohort (1989). For both cohorts, the effects of college characteristics on earnings are sizeable (and similar in magnitude) in standard regression models. In selection-adjusted models, these effects generally fall to close to zero; however, these effects remain large for certain subgroups, such as for black and Hispanic students.'] ['This article reports on household survey measurements of the \xe2\x80\x9coffshorability\xe2\x80\x9d of jobs, defined as the ability to perform the work from abroad. We develop multiple measures of offshorability, using both self-reporting and professional coders. All measures find that roughly 25% of US jobs are offshorable. Our three preferred measures agree between 70% and 80% of the time. Professional coders appear to provide the most accurate assessments. Empirically, more educated workers appear to hold somewhat more offshorable jobs, and offshorability does not have systematic effects on either wages or the probability of layoff.'] ['Most existing work on the demand for health insurance focuses on employees\xe2\x80\x99 decisions to enroll in employer-provided plans. Yet any attempt to achieve universal coverage must focus on the uninsured, the vast majority of whom are not offered employer-sponsored insurance. In the summer of 2008, we conducted a survey experiment to assess the willingness to pay for a health plan among a large sample of uninsured Americans. The experiment yields price elasticities of around one, substantially greater than those found in most previous studies. We use these results to estimate coverage expansion under the Affordable Care Act, with and without an individual mandate. We estimate that 35 million uninsured individuals would gain coverage and find limited evidence of adverse selection.'] ['This study examines occupational licensing in the United States using a specially designed national labor force survey. Estimates from the survey indicated that 35% of employees were either licensed or certified by the government and that 29% were licensed. Another 3% stated that all who worked in their job would eventually be required to be certified or licensed, bringing the total that are or eventually must be licensed or certified by government to 38%. We find that licensing is associated with about 18% higher wages but that the effect of governmental certification on pay is much smaller.'] ['Some workers bargain with prospective employers before accepting a job. Others face a posted wage as a take-it-or-leave-it opportunity. Both modes of wage determination have generated large bodies of research. We surveyed a representative sample of US workers to inquire about the wage determination process at the time they were hired into their current or most recent jobs. A third of the respondents reported bargaining over pay before accepting their current jobs. Almost a third of workers had precise information about pay when they first met with their employers, a sign of wage posting. About 40 percent of workers were on-the-job searchers-they could have remained at their earlier jobs at the time they accepted their current jobs, indicating a more favorable bargaining position than is held by unemployed job-seekers. About half of all workers reported that their employers had learned their pay in their earlier jobs before making the offer that led to the current job. (JEL C83, J31, J52, J64)'] ['This paper provides new evidence on time use and subjective well-being of employed and unemployed individuals in 14 countries. We devote particular attention to characterizing and modeling job search intensity, measured by the amount of time devoted to searching for a new job. Job search intensity varies considerably across countries, and is higher in countries that have higher wage dispersion. We also examine the relationship between unemployment benefits and job search.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper provides new evidence on the time use and emotional well-being of unemployed individuals in the weeks before and after starting a new job. The major findings are: (1) time spent on home production drops sharply at the time of re-employment, even when controlling for individual fixed effects; (2) time spent on leisure-related activities, which the unemployed find less enjoyable, drops on re-employment, but less so when controlling for individual fixed effects; (3) the unemployed report higher levels of sadness during specific episodes of the day than the employed; and (4) sadness decreases abruptly at the time of re-employment.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The recent economic crisis has highlighted significant weaknesses in our economic and financial indicators. This paper documents what the crisis has revealed regarding some of the more critical shortcomings of our existing statistical infrastructure, and proposes a way in which these shortcomings could be mitigated.'] ['This paper provides new evidence on job search intensity of the unemployed in the U.S., modeling job search intensity as time allocated to job search activities. The major findings are: 1) the average U.S. unemployed worker devotes about 41\xc3\x82 min to job search on weekdays, which is substantially more than their European counterparts; 2) workers who expect to be recalled by their previous employer search substantially less than the average unemployed worker; 3) across the 50 states and D.C., job search is inversely related to the generosity of unemployment benefits, with an elasticity between -1.6 and -2.2; 4) job search intensity for those eligible for Unemployment Insurance (UI) increases prior to benefit exhaustion; and 5) time devoted to job search is fairly constant regardless of unemployment duration for those who are ineligible for UI.'] [' Our study provides the first national analysis of the labour market implications of workers who are licensed by any agency of the government in the USA. Using a specially designed Gallup survey of a nationally representative sample of Americans, we provide an analysis of the influence of this form of occupational regulation. We find that 29 per cent of the workforce is required to hold a licence, which is a higher percentage than that found in other studies that rely on state-level occupational licensing data or single states. Workers who have higher levels of education are more likely to work in jobs that require a licence. Union workers and government employees are more likely to have a licence requirement than are non-union or private sector employees. Our multivariate estimates suggest that licensing has about the same quantitative impact on wages as do unions - that is about 15 per cent - and that being both licensed and in a union can increase wages by more than 24 per cent. However, unlike unions which reduce variance in wages, licensing does not significantly reduce wage dispersion for individuals in licensed jobs. Copyright (c) Blackwell Publishing Ltd/London School of Economics 2010.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper studies the test-retest reliability of a standard self-reported life satisfaction measure and of affect measures collected from a diary method. The sample consists of 229 women who were interviewed on Thursdays, two weeks apart, in Spring 2005. The correlation of net affect (i.e., duration-weighted positive feelings less negative feelings) measured two weeks apart is .64, which is slightly higher than the correlation of life satisfaction (r\xc3\x82 =\xc3\x82 .59). Correlations between income, net affect and life satisfaction are presented, and adjusted for attenuation bias due to measurement error. Life satisfaction is found to correlate much more strongly with income than does net affect. Components of affect that are more person-specific are found to have a higher test-retest reliability than components of affect that are more specific to the particular situation. While reliability figures for subjective well-being measures are lower than those typically found for education, income and many other microeconomic variables, they are probably sufficiently high to support much of the research that is currently being undertaken on subjective well-being, particularly in studies where group means are compared (e.g., across activities or demographic groups).'] [" The authors describe a new, Web-based survey instrument that may serve as an aide for teachers and as an interactive exercise for high school economics students. The questionnaire asks students about their involvement with the economy, inquiring about employment, consumption, and living standards, and includes a few hypothetical consumer-demand questions. Teachers can request an automated report on the basis of their classes' responses, containing comparisons with a national sample. The motivation for the survey is twofold. First, in addition to enhancing their understanding of their students' backgrounds and familiarity with the U.S. economy, teachers will receive suggestions on ways to use the survey responses to illustrate economic concepts. Second, with lesson plans grounded in students' own experiences, the authors hope that students will be more actively engaged in learning."] ['This paper tests a central implication of the theory of equalizing differences, that workers sort into jobs with different attributes based on their preferences. We present evidence from four new time-use data sets for the United States and France suggesting that workers who are more gregarious, as revealed by their behavior when they are not working, tend to be employed in jobs that involve more social interactions. We also find that workers report substantially higher levels of job satisfaction and net affect while at work if their jobs entail frequent interactions with coworkers and other desirable working conditions.'] ['This paper compares the characteristics of 63 alleged homegrown Islamic terrorists in the U.S.A. to a representative sample of 1000+ Muslim Americans. The alleged terrorists have about average level of education. Those with higher education were judged closer to succeeding.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" In Grutter v. Bollinger, Justice O'Connor conjectured that in 25 years affirmative action in college admissions will be unnecessary. We project the test score distribution of black and white college applicants 25 years from now, focusing on the role of black--white family income gaps. Economic progress alone is unlikely to narrow the achievement gap enough in 25 years to produce today's racial diversity levels with race-blind admissions. A return to the rapid black--white test score convergence of the 1980s could plausibly cause black representation to approach current levels at moderately selective schools, but not at the most selective schools. Copyright 2006, Oxford University Press."] ["Direct reports of subjective well-being may have a useful role in the measurement of consumer preferences and social welfare, if they can be done in a credible way. Can well-being be measured by a subjective survey, even approximately? In this paper, we discuss research on how individuals' responses to subjective well-being questions vary with their circumstances and other factors. We will argue that it is fruitful to distinguish among different conceptions of utility rather than presume to measure a single, unifying concept that motivates all human choices and registers all relevant feelings and experiences. While various measures of well-being are useful for some purposes, it is important to recognize that subjective well-being measures features of individuals' perceptions of their experiences, not their utility as economists typically conceive of it. Those perceptions are a more accurate gauge of actual feelings if they are reported closer to the time of, and in direct reference to, the actual experience. We conclude by proposing the U- index, a misery index of sorts, which measures the proportion of time that people spend in an unpleasant state, and has the virtue of not requiring a cardinal conception of individuals' feelings."] ["Between 1996 and 1998 California and Texas eliminated the use of affirmative action in college and university admissions. At the states' elite public universities admission rates of black and Hispanic students subsequently fell by 30-50% and minority representation in the entering freshman classes declined. This study investigates whether the elimination of affirmative action changed minority students' college application behavior. A particular concern is that highly qualified minorities--who were not directly affected by the policy change--would be dissuaded from applying to elite public schools, either because of reduced campus diversity or because of uncertainty about their admission prospects. The authors use information from SAT takers in the two states to compare the fractions of minority students who sent their test scores to selective state institutions before and after the elimination of affirmative action. They find no change in the SAT-sending behavior of highly qualified black or Hispanic students."] ["Beginning in 1997, the price of concert tickets took off and ticket sales declined. From 1996 to 2003, for example, the average concert price increased by 82%, while the CPI increased by 17%. Explanations for price growth include (1) the possible crowding out of the secondary ticket market, (2) rising superstar effects, (3) Baumols and Bowen's disease, (4) increased concentraion of promoters, and (5) the erosion of complementarities between concerts and album sales because of file sharing and CD copying. The article tentatively concludes that the decline in complementarities is the main cause of the recent surge in concert prices."] ["This paper provides a case study of the effect of labor relations on product quality. We consider whether a long, contentious strike and the hiring of replacement workers at Bridgestone/Firestone's Decatur, Illinois, plant in the mid-1990s contributed to the production of defective tires. Using several independent data sources and looking before and after the strike and across plants, we find that labor strife at the Decatur plant closely coincided with lower product quality. Monthly data suggest that defects were particularly high around the time concessions were demanded and when large numbers of replacement workers and returning strikers worked side by side."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Public opinion influences politicians, and therefore influences public policy decisions. What are the roles of self-interest, knowledge, and ideology in public opinion formation? And how do people learn about economic issues? Using a new, specially-designed survey, we find that most respondents express a strong desire to be well informed on economic policy issues, and that television is their dominant source of information. On a variety of major policy issues (e.g., taxes, social security, health insurance), ideology is the most important determinant of public opinion, while measures of self-interest are the least important. Knowledge about the economy ranks somewhere in between.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["Although schools across the country are investing heavily in computers in the classroom, there is surprisingly little evidence that they actually improve student achievement. In this paper we present results from a randomized study of a well-defined use of computers in schools: a popular instructional computer program, known as Fast ForWord, which is designed to improve language and reading skills. We assess the impact of the program using four different measures of language and reading ability. Our estimates suggest that while use of the computer program may improve some aspects of students' language skills, it does not appear that these gains translate into a broader measure of language acquisition or into actual reading skills.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The International Banking and Finance Institute (IBFI) organised its fifth international monetary seminar from 12 to 16 May 2003 on the topic \xe2\x80\x9cVulnerabilities and surveillance of the international financial system\xe2\x80\x9d. This seminar brought together 43 participants from the central banks of industrialised and emerging countries as well as from international institutions (BIS, IMF, OECD, FSF, etc.), and around 30 speakers from various central banks, international bodies and the private sector. The first two days were devoted to: \xe2\x80\x93 providing an overview of developments in the international environment, markets and the financial system including the insurance sector, which gave rise to a speech by a director at the French Insurance Association; \xe2\x80\x93 analysing the vulnerabilities of the banking and financial system, in particular those stemming from changes in market techniques and market participants\xe2\x80\x99 behaviour; \xe2\x80\x93 analysing accounting and prudential issues arising from the implementation of the future interna tional solvency ratio and the introduction of the new international financial reporting standards; \xe2\x80\x93 examining current ideas on resolving international financial crises, with particular focus on the approach proposed by the Banque de France with a view to fostering a \xe2\x80\x9cCode of conduct\xe2\x80\x9d for the voluntary renegotiation between sovereign issuers and creditors, as well as the IMF\xe2\x80\x99s point of view on the restructuring of sovereign debt, put forward by Anne Krueger, deputy managing director of the IMF, in a video-conference transmitted live from Washington 1. In the two days that followed, there ensued lively debate between the participants, who formed two workshops: one on the interactions between financial markets and monetary policy, and the other on the provisions of the New Basel Accord and the financial reporting standards and their impact on economic cycles 2. The first workshop was mainly organised around three topics: \xe2\x80\x93 central bank communication, in the areas of monetary policy, foreign exchange and financial stability; \xe2\x80\x93 methods of identifying vulnerabilities in financial systems; \xe2\x80\x93 links between price stability and financial stability. The second workshop focused on three issues: \xe2\x80\x93 the new financial reporting standards put forward by the International Accounting Standard Board and their implications for credit institutions, in particular with respect to the principle of prudence and the need to avoid introducing artificial volatility into accounts; \xe2\x80\x93 the future solvency ratio applicable to credit institutions as defined in the New Basel Capital Accord; \xe2\x80\x93 the convergence or divergence between financial reporting and prudential standards. Although focusing on seemingly different issues, the rich and fruitful discussions that were held throughout the workshops revealed a broad community of views on financial stability issues underlying the two topics examined. Moreover, a dinner-discussion was organised by Pr Avinash Persaud, holder of the Chair in Commerce at Gresham College, on the risks of financial instability arising from the standardisation of asset allocation approaches, herd behaviours and the blind use of portfolio risk management techniques. Discussions ended with a round table debate, introduced by Governor Trichet and chaired by Mr Marc-Olivier Strauss-Kahn, Director General \xe2\x80\x93 Directorate General Economics and International Relations. Five speakers discussed the topic of \xe2\x80\x9ctransparency and market discipline\xe2\x80\x9d: \xe2\x80\x93 Mr Flemming Larsen, Director of the IMF\xe2\x80\x99s European Offices; \xe2\x80\x93 Mr William Witherell, Director of Financial, Fiscal and Enterprise Affairs, OECD; \xe2\x80\x93 Mr Michel Prada, former chairman of the COB and of the International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) 3; \xe2\x80\x93 Mr Jan Brockmeijer, Deputy Executive Director for Supervision, Nederlandsche Bank; \xe2\x80\x93 and Mr Svein Andresen, Secretary General of the FSF, who summed up the discussions. Mr Flemming Larsen discussed the issue of transparency in emerging economies in the light of the international financial crises that marked the past decade. In this respect, he stressed the benefits attached to the adoption and the effective implementation by these economies of the international codes and standards promoted by the IMF and the World Bank. These codes and standards cover twelve key areas that would benefit from the application of the principles and standards developed by international bodies in the area of economic governance and financial regulation, and transparency and corporate governance. The IMF reports on the implementation of these codes and standards provide a good means to enhance transparency, market discipline and multilateral surveillance, while helping national authorities to identify priority actions for improving the resilience of their economy. Mr William Witherell discussed the role of corporate governance rules and financial transparency as a means to guaranteeing the integrity and smooth functioning of financial markets. The challenge that now lies ahead for regulators and government authorities is to develop a legal and regulatory framework that fully integrates these requirements in order to rebuild investor confidence and to ensure the effective use of market discipline. As regards the scope of these requirements, he recalled the set of general principles defined in this context by the OECD. These principles are now embodied in the international standards, whose application is recommended by the FSF for industrialised and emerging economies alike. He also stressed the great importance of the rules of governance and internal control in financial institutions given their role in allocating resources, their responsibilities to investors, and their particular exposure to the risks of conflicts of interest owing to the nature of their activities. Mr Michel Prada 4 first recalled the main areas in which regulators were currently working to restore market foundations and improve the functioning of the market: introducing international financial reporting standards, implementing corporate governance principles, organising and supervising auditors, and lastly defining professional standards for the players in charge of interpreting financial information and transmitting it to investors, analysts and rating agencies. He then discussed the challenges arising from the globalisation and increasingly broad scope of markets, underscoring the implications of the risk transfer techniques currently used by intermediaries and the factors underlying the recent excess volatility of asset prices. These developments call for, above and beyond the close co-ordination between the prudential regulation of intermediaries and market regulation, the stepping up of international cooperation between regulators and a better understanding of market mechanisms in order to counter factors of financial instability. Lastly, Mr Jan Brockmeijer discussed Pillar III (market discipline) in the framework of the new capital adequacy regime for banks defined by the Basel Committee. Going hand in hand with the other two Pillars of the New Basel Capital Accord, Pillar III provides for a number of disclosure requirements that enable market participants and prudential authorities to obtain all the necessary parameters to assess risk profiles and the creditworthiness of credit institutions.'] ['The paper investigates whether there is a connection between poverty or low education and terrorism. We review evidence on hate crimes, which are closely related to terrorism; the occurrence of hate crimes is largely independent of economic conditions. We analyze data on support for attacks against Israeli targets from public opinion polls conducted in the West Bank and Gaza Strip; support for violent attacks does not decrease among those with higher education and higher living standards. The core contribution of the paper is a statistical analysis of the determinants of participation in Hezbollah militant activities; having a living standard above the poverty line or a secondary or higher education is positively associated with participation in Hezbollah. We also find that Israeli Jewish settlers who attacked Palestinians in the West Bank in the early 1980s were overwhelmingly from high-paying occupations. Although our results are tentative and exploratory, they suggest that neither poverty nor education has a direct, causal impact on terrorism.'] [" Since 1979, the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) has nearly quadrupled the size of the sample used to estimate monthly employment changes. Although first-reported employment estimates are still noisy, the magnitude of sampling variability has declined in proportion to the increase in the sample size. A model of rational Bayesian updating predicts that investors would assign more weight to the BLS employment survey as it became more precise. However, a regression analysis of changes in interest rates on the day the employment data are released finds no evidence that the bond market's reaction to employment news intensified in the late 1980s or 1990s; indeed, in the late 1990s and early 2000s the bond markets hardly reacted to unexpected employment news. For the time period as a whole, an unexpected increase of 200,000 jobs is associated with about a 6 basis point increase in the interest rate on 30-year Treasury bonds, and an 8 basis point increase in the interest rate on three-month bills, all else equal. Additionally, unexpected changes in the unemployment rate and revisions to past months' employment estimates have statistically insig-nificant effects on long-term interest rates. (JEL: G14, J23) Copyright (c) 2003 The European Economic Association."] [' This paper examines evidence on the effect of class size on student achievement. First, it is shown that results of quantitative summaries of the literature, such as Hanushek (1997), depend critically on whether studies are accorded equal weight. When studies are given equal weight, resources are systematically related to student achievement. When weights are in proportion to their number of estimates, resources and achievements are not systematically related. Second, a cost-benefit analysis of class size reduction is performed. Results of the Tennessee STAR class-size experiment suggest that the internal rate of return from reducing class size from 22 to 15 students is around 6%. Copyright Royal Economic Society 2003'] ['This article contains an interview with Edmond Malinvaud. Professor Malinvaud describes the origins of his interest in economics, teachers who had a major influence on his development as an economist, his visit to the Cowles Commission in 1950, the substance of his research, and the contributions he made as a policy maker. Among the interesting tidbits in the interview is that Professor Malinvaud\'s popular textbooks in microeconomic theory, macroeconomics and econometrics were a direct outgrowth of courses he taught at INSEE. "I am not good at speaking," he said, "when not constrained by a written text."'] [' Estimates of the effect of college selectivity on earnings may be biased because elite colleges admit students, in part, based on characteristics that are related to future earnings. We matched students who applied to, and were accepted by, similar colleges to try to eliminate this bias. Using the College and Beyond data set and National Longitudinal Survey of the High School Class of 1972, we find that students who attended more selective colleges earned about the same as students of seemingly comparable ability who attended less selective schools. Children from low-income families, however, earned more if they attended selective colleges. \xc2\xa9 2001 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] [' This paper provides a long-term follow-up analysis of students who participated in the Tennessee STAR experiment. In this experiment, students and their teachers were randomly assigned to small, regular-size, or regular-size classes with a teacher aide in the first four years of school. We analyse the effect of past attendance in small classes on student test scores and whether they took the ACT or SAT college entrance exam. Attending a small class in the early grades is associated with an increased likelihood of taking a college-entrance exam, especially among minority students, and somewhat higher test scores.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Instrumental variables was first used in the 1920s to estimate supply and demand elasticities and later to correct for measurement error in single equation models. Recently, instrumental variables have been widely used to reduce bias from omitted variables in estimates of causal relationships. Intuitively, instrumental variables methods use only a portion of the variability in key variables to estimate the relationships of interest; if the instruments are valid, that portion is unrelated to the omitted variables. We discuss the mechanics of instrumental variables and the qualities that make for a good instrument, devoting particular attention to instruments derived from "natural experiments."'] ['This paper summarizes and tries to reconcile evidence from the microeconometric and empirical macro growth literatures on the effect of schooling on income and GDP growth. Much microeconometric evidence suggests that education is an important causal determinant of income for individuals within countries. At a national level, however, recent studies have found that increases in educational attainment are unrelated to economic growth. This discrepancy appears to be a result of the high rate of measurement error in first-differenced cross-country education data. After accounting for measurement error, the effect of changes in educational attainment on income growth in cross-country data is at least as great as microeconometric estimates of the rate of return to years of schooling. Another finding of the macro growth literature--that economic growth depends positively on the initial stock of human capital--is not robust when the assumption of a constant-coefficient model is relaxed.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['  The author argues that the recent controversy over the effect of the minimum wage on employment offers an opportunity for teaching introductory economics. Research findings on the minimum wage could be used to motivate alternative models of the labor market, such as monopsony and search models, and to teach students how economists test hypotheses with data.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['To commemorate the new millennium and 50 issues of JEP, we have commissioned a series of essays in three broad areas. The first set of papers in this issue look back at key developments in the economy and economic thinking. In a second group of articles, we asked for predictions about the future of the subject of economics. Finally, in a third group of articles, we encouraged authors to make predictions about future developments in the economy.'] ['Alan Krueger and Timothy Taylor interviewed Zvi Griliches, Paul M. Warburg Professor of Economics at Harvard University, at his home near the Harvard campus on June 21, 1999. The interview touches on his harrowing journey from Lithuania to Chicago; years at the University of Chicago; the move to Harvard University; work on diffusion and technology and on returns to education; thoughts on the data infrastructure; government service and economic research; and hobbies.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper considers conceptual and practical issues that arise in measuring labor's share of national income. Most importantly: How are workers defined? How is compensation defined? The current definition of labor compensation used the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) includes the salary of business owners and payments to retired workers in labor compensation. An alternative series to the BEA's standard series is presented. In addition, a simple method for decomposing labor compensation into a component due to raw labor' and a component due to human capital is presented. Raw labor's share of national income is estimated using Census and CPS data. The share of national income attributable to raw labor increased from 9.6 percent to 13 percent between 1939 and 1959, remained at 12-13 percent between 1959 and 1979, and fell to 5 percent by 1996.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper analyzes data on 11,600 students and their teachers who were randomly assigned to different size classes from kindergarten through third grade. Statistical methods are used to adjust for nonrandom attrition and transitions between classes. The main conclusions are (1) on average, performance on standardized tests increases by four percentile points the first year students attend small classes; (2) the test score advantage of students in small classes expands by about one percentile point per year in subsequent years; (3) teacher aides and measured teacher characteristics have little effect; (4) class size has a larger effect for minority students and those on free lunch; (5) Hawthorne effects were unlikely. \xc2\xa9 2000 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Two-stage-least-squares (2SLS) estimates are biased towards the probability limit of OLS estimates. This bias grows with the degree of over-identification and can generate highly misleading results. In this paper we propose two simple alternatives to 2SLS and limited-information-maximum-likelihood (LIML) estimators for models with more instruments than endogenous regressors. These estimators can be interpreted as instrumental variables procedures using an instrument that is independent of disturbances even in finite samples. Independence is achieved by using a 'leave-one-out' jackknife-type fitted value in place of the usual first stage equation. The new estimators are first order equivalent to 2SLS but with finite-sample properties superior, in terms of bias and coverage rate of confidence intervals, compared to those of 2SLS and similar to those of LIML, when there are many instruments."] [' This paper examines the effect of skill-biased technological change as measured by computerization on the recent widening of U.S. educational wage differentials. An analysis of aggregate changes in the relative supplies and wages of workers by education from 1940 to 1996 indicates strong and persistent growth in relative demand favoring college graduates. Rapid skill upgrading within detailed industries accounts for most of the growth in the relative demand for college workers, particularly since 1970. Analyses of four data sets indicate that the rate of skill upgrading has been greater in more computer-intensive industries. \xc2\xa9 2000 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['The author evaluates the popular belief that the U.S. public school system is flawed and can be corrected only through fundamental changes in the institutions governing education. He finds that the system is not inherently flawed, and may actually be reasonably effective. Based on these findings, he offers incremental proposals to improve U.S. schools.'] [' Specialists in labor economics and public economics at 40 leading research universities provided opinions of policy proposals, quantitative best estimates and 95-percent confidence intervals for economic parameters, and answers to values questions regarding income redistribution, efficiency versus equity, and individual versus social responsibility. Their positions on policy are more closely related to their values than to their estimates of relevant economic parameters. Average best estimates of the economic parameters agree well with the relevant literature, but individual best estimates are usually widely dispersed. The individual 95-percent confidence intervals are much narrower than the substantial cross-respondent variation in estimates would warrant.'] [' This article examines the impact of a workplace education program at two companies--one in the manufacturing sector and the other in the service sector. The authors examine a broad range of outcome variables, including earnings, turnover, performance awards, job attendance, and subjective performance measures. They estimate a small, positive impact of the program on earnings at the manufacturing company but an insignificant impact at the service company. Trainees were equally likely to exit the company as nontrainees. The authors also find that the training had a positive association with the incidence of job bids, upgrades, performance awards, and job attendance. Copyright 1998 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Germany has experienced a high and rising rate of anti-foreigner violence during the early 1990s. To analyze the determinants of crime against foreigners we assembled a new data set on the number and nature of such crimes at the county level based on newspaper reports. We find significant differences in the patterns of violence in the eastern and western parts of the country. The incidence of anti-foreigner crime is higher in the east and rises with distance from the former West German border. Economic variables like unemployment and wages matter little for the level of crime once location in the east is taken into account. The relative number of foreigners in a county has no relationship with the incidence of ethnic crimes in the west, whereas in the east it has a positive association with the number of crimes per resident and a negative association with the number of crimes per foreign resident.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper reviews and interprets the literature on the effects of school resources on students' eventual earnings and educational attainment. In addition, new evidence is presented on the impact of the great disparity in school resources between black and white students in North and South Carolina that existed in the first half of the twentieth century, and the subsequent narrowing of these resource disparities. Following birth cohorts over time, gaps in earnings and educational attainment for blacks and whites in the Carolinas tend to mirror the gaps in school resources."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The authors examine the reduced-form relationship between per capita income and various environmental indicators. Their study covers four types of indicators: urban air pollution, the state of the oxygen regime in river basins, fecal contamination of river basins, and contamination of river basins by heavy metals. The authors find no evidence that environmental quality deteriorates steadily with economic growth. Rather, for most indicators, economic growth brings an initial phase of deterioration followed by a subsequent phase of improvement. The turning points for the different pollutants vary but in most cases they come before a country reaches a per capita income of $8,000. Copyright 1995, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Two-stage least squares is biased in the same direction as ordinary least squares even in very large samples. The authors propose a split-sample instrumental variables estimator that is not biased toward ordinary least squares. Split-sample instrumental variables uses one-half of a sample to estimate parameters of the first-stage equation. Estimated first-stage parameters are then used to construct fitted values and second-stage parameter estimates in the other half sample. Split-sample instrumental variables is biased toward zero but this bias can be corrected. The authors use split-sample estimators to reexamine instrumental variables and two-stage least squares estimates of the returns to schooling.'] [" On April 1, 1992, New Jersey's minimum wage rose from $4.25 to $5.05 per hour. To evaluate the impact of the law, the authors surveyed 410 fast-food restaurants in New Jersey and eastern Pennsylvania before and after the rise. Comparisons of employment growth at stores in New Jersey and Pennsylvania (where the minimum wage was constant) provide simple estimates of the effect of the higher minimum wage. The authors also compare employment changes at stores in New Jersey that were initially paying high wages (above $5.00) to the changes at lower-wage stores. They find no indication that the rise in the minimum wage reduced employment. Copyright 1994 by American Economic Association."] [' This paper uses a new survey to contrast the wages of genetically identical twins with different schooling levels. Multiple measurements of schooling levels were also collected to assess the effect of reporting error on the estimated economic returns to schooling. The data indicate that omitted ability variables do not bias the estimated return to schooling upward but that measurement error does bias it downward. Adjustment for measurement error indicates that an additional year of schooling increases wages by 12 to 16 percent, a higher estimate of the economic returns to schooling than has been previously found. Copyright 1994 by American Economic Association.'] [" World War II veterans earn more than nonveterans in their cohort. We test whether the World War II veteran premium reflects nonrandom selection into the military of men with higher earnings potential. The estimation is based on the fact that from 1942 to 1947 priority for conscription was determined by date of birth. Information on individuals' dates of birth may therefore be used to construct instrumental variables for veteran status. Empirical results from the 1960, 1970, and l980 censuses, along with two other microdata sets support a conclusion that World War II veterans earn no more than comparable nonveterans and may well earn less. Copyright 1994 by University of Chicago Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We consider the recently proposed "income-contingent loan" (ICL), in which Congress would establish a national trust fund from which students could borrow money to finance the cost of attending college; students would repay these loans by contributing a fixed proportion of their subsequent income for a specified number of years. One key issue is whether proposed income-contingent loan plans will be self-financing; that is, will the value of loan repayments cover the initial cost of providing the loan? What about adverse selection? And how should income be defined for purposes of an income-contingent loan plan? In essence the typical income-contingent loan proposal involves three parameters: the amount of the loan; the period over which income is "taxed"; and the rate at which income is taxed. At what level must the tax rate be set for an ICL plan to be self-financing? We present several illustrative calculations that might be useful to those who wish to evaluate various proposals and present some conclusions.'] [' This paper uses Current Population Survey data to examine whether workers who use a computer at work earn a higher wag e rate than otherwise similar workers who do not use a computer at wor k. A variety of models are estimated.to try to correct for unobserved variables that might be correlated with job-related computer use and earnings. Estimates suggest that workers who use computers on their job earn 10 to 15 percent higher wages. Additionally, the expansion in computer use in the 1980s can account for one-third to one-half of t he increase in the rate of return to education. Copyright 1993, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [' This article uses aggregate birth year/calendar year level data derived from the Current Population Survey to estimate the effect of Social Security wealth on the labor supply of older men in the 1970s and 1980s. The analysis focuses on measuring the impact of the 1977 amendments to the Social Security Act, which created a substantial, unanticipated reduction in Social Security wealth for individuals born after 1916. This differential in benefits has become known as the benefit notch. Results indicate that labor supply continued to decline for the "notch babies" who received lower Social Security benefits than earlier cohorts. Copyright 1992 by University of Chicago Press.'] [' This paper estimates the effects of school quality--measured by the pupil/teacher ratio, average term length, and relative teacher pay--on the rate of return to education for men born between 1920 and 1949. Using earnings data from the 1980 census, the authors find that men who were educated in states with higher-quality schools have a higher return to additional years of schooling. Rates of return are also higher for individuals from states with better-educated teachers and with a higher fraction of female teachers. Holding constant school quality measures, however, the authors find no evidence that parental income or education affects average state-level rates of return. Copyright 1992 by University of Chicago Press.'] [' The wage differential between black and white men fell from 40 percent in 1960 to 25 percent in 1980. It has been argued that this convergence reflects improvements in the relative quality of black schools. To test this hypothesis, the authors assembled data on pupil-teacher ratios, annual teacher pay, and term length for black and white schools in the eighteen segregated states from 1915 to 1966. These data are linked to estimated returns to education for Southern-born men from different cohorts and states in 1960, 1970, and 1980. Improvements in the relative quality of black schools explain 20 percent of the narrowing of the black-white earnings gap between 1960 and 1980. Copyright 1992, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['Using a longitudinal survey of fast-food restaurants in Texas, the authors examine the impact of recent increases in the federal minimum wage on a low-wage labor market. Less than 5% of fast-food restaurants were using the new youth subminimum wage in July/August 1991, even though the vast majority paid a starting wage below the new hourly minimum wage immediately before it became effective. Although some restaurants increased wages beyond the level needed to comply with higher minimum wages in both 1990 and 1991, those federal minimum wage increases greatly compressed the distribution of starting wages in the Texas fast-food industry. Two findings at variance with conventional predictions are that (1) employment increased more in those firms likely to have been most affected by the 1991 minimum wage increase than in other firms and (2) price changes were unrelated to mandated wage changes. (Abstract courtesy JSTOR.)'] [' This article examines the properties and prevalence of measurement error in longitudinal earnings data. The analysis compares matched Current Population Survey data to administrative Social Security payroll tax records. In contrast to typically assumed properties of measurement error, the results indicate that errors are serially correlated over two years and negatively correlated with true earnings (i.e., mean reverting). In a cross section, the ratio of the variance of the signal to the total variance is 0.82 for men and 0.92 for women. These ratios fall to 0.65 and 0.81 when the data are specified in first differences. Longitudinal earnings data may be more reliable than previously believed. Copyright 1991 by University of Chicago Press.'] [' This paper estimates the difference in compensation between company-owned and franchisee-owned fast food restaurants. The contrast is of interest because contractual arrangements give managers of company-owned outlets less of an incentive to monitor and supervise employees. Estimates based on two data sets suggest that employee compensation is slightly greater at company-owned outlets than at franchisee-owned outlets. The earnings gap is 9 percent for assistant and shift managers and 2 percent for full-time crew workers. Furthermore, the tenure-earnings profile is steeper at company-owned restaurants. These findings suggest that monitoring difficulties influence the timing and generosity of compensation. Copyright 1991, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [' This paper uses job applications data to investigate the relationship between job queues and wage differentials. The main finding is that openings for jobs that pay the minimum wage attract more job applicants than jobs that pay either slightly more or slightly less than the minimum wage. This spike in the job application rate distribution suggests that ex ante rents generated for employees by an above market-level minimum wage are not completely dissipated by reductions in nonwage benefits. In addition, the authors find that highly unionized firms, large firms, and firms in high-wage industries tend to receive relatively many job applicants for openings. Copyright 1991, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [' The authors establish that season of birth is related to educational attainment because of school start age policy and compulsory school attendance laws. Individuals born in the beginning of the year start school at an older age, and can therefore drop out after completing less schooling than individuals born near the end of the year. Roughly 25 percent of potential dropouts remain in school because of compulsory schooling laws. They estimate the impact of compulsory schooling on earnings by using quarter of birth as an instrument for education. The instrumental valuables estimate of the return to education is close to the ordinary least squares estimate, suggesting that there is little bias in conventional estimates. Copyright 1991, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ["In the past decade, many state courts have ruled in favor of employees alleging they were improperly dismissed. The author of this paper advances an evolutionary theory of unjust-dismissal legislation in which employer groups, responding to the threat of large and variable damage awards imposed by the judicial system, eventually support unjust-dismissal legislation in order to clearly define property rights, reduce uncertainty, and limit employer liability. Based on evidence from a case study of legislation enacted in Montana and an empirical analysis of the determinants of proposed unjust-dismissal legislation in a panel of states, the author concludes that proposals of unjust-dismissal legislation are a response to court rulings that weaken and obfuscate the employer's right to dismiss employees at will. (Abstract courtesy JSTOR.)"] [" New estimates of the average cost of workers' compensation insurance for a homogeneous group of employers by state are presented. These data are used to estimate cost equations for a variety of alternative specifications. The main finding is that when cost equations are estimated by ordinary least squares there is a unit elasticity of costs with respect to benefits, but instrumental variable estimates of the effect of benefits yield a greater than unit elasticity. Finally, the presence of a state insurance fund is associated with higher average costs for employers, all else equal. Copyright 1990 by MIT Press."] ["This paper uses Current Population Survey data on a large sample of workers to estimate the determinants of participation in state workers' compensation programs in the United States. The principal finding is Chat higher workers' compensation benefits are associated with greater participation in the workers' compensation program, after accounting for worker characteristics, state fixed effects, and other aspects of the workers' compensation law. Moreover, this result holds for both manufacturing and non-manufacturing workers. Workers' compensation benefits, however, have an insignificant effect on program participation for the sample of women. Overall, a 10% increase in benefits is associated with a 6.7% increase in program participation. In addition, the results show that the waiting period that is required before benefit payments begin has a substantial negative effect on participation in the workers' compensation program. Finally, the parameters of the cross-sectional model are used to simulate the aggregate workers' compensation incidence rate from 1969 to 1987. The growth in workers' compensation claims in the 1970s appears to correspond reasonably well co the growth in real benefits that occurred during this time period.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['Using BLS data on 300 hospitals in 1985, the authors examine pay in four occupations, with a particular focus on the effect of supervision on the pay of nonsupervisory employees. There was a strong hospital-specific effect on wages that cut across occupations; thus, if a hospital paid relatively high wages to one occupation, it was likely to pay high wages to workers in other occupations as well. The inter-occupational pattern of the ratio of supervisors to staff, on the other hand, was much less uniform among hospitals. The wages of staff nurses tended to fall with the extent of supervision, suggesting that workers do not receive a compensating wage premium in return for closer supervision. (Abstract courtesy JSTOR.)'] [' This paper uses cross-sectional and longitudinal data to examine differences in pay for equally-skilled workers in different ind ustries. The major finding is that there is substantial dispersion in wages across industries, even after allowing for measured and unmeas ured labor quality, working conditions, fringe benefits, transitory d emand shocks, the threat of union-ization, union bargaining power, fi rm size, and other factors. In addition, evidence is presented demons trating that turnover has a negative relationship with industry wage differentials. These findings suggest that workers in high-wage indus tries receive noncompetitive rents. Copyright 1988 by The Econometric Society.'] ['This paper examines the determinants of the number and quality of outside applicants for federal job openings, using a variety of time-series, cross-sectional, and panel data sets. The main finding is that the application rate for government jobs increases as the ratio of federal to private sector earnings increases, but the rate does not appear to be related to the relative level of fringe benefits. Furthermore, an increase in the federal-private sector earnings differential is associated with an increase in the average quality of applicants for federal jobs. The author discusses the implications of these findings for wage determination and recruitment in the federal government. (Abstract courtesy JSTOR.)']