 ["A key tenet of the theory of human capital is that investment in skills results in higher productivity. The previous literature has estimated the degree of investment in human capital for individuals by looking at individual wage growth as a proxy for productivity growth. In this paper, we have both wage and personal productivity data, and thus are able to measure of the increase in workers' output with tenure as evidence of the degree of learning on the job. The data is from an autoglass company. Most of production occurs at the individual level so measures of output are clear. We find a very steep learning curve in the first eight months on the job: output is 53 percent higher after eight months than it is initially. Our data show that these output gains with tenure are not reflected in equal percentage pay gains: pay profiles are much flatter than output profiles in the first year and a half on the job. For these data, using wage profiles significantly underestimates the amount of investment compared to the gains evident in output-tenure profiles. The pattern of productivity rising more rapidly than pay reverses after two years of tenure, although our evidence on this point is less reliable. Worker selection is also important. Workers who stay longer have higher output levels and faster early learning."] ['Personnel economics drills deeply into the firm to study human resource management practices like compensation, hiring practices, training, and teamwork. Why should pay vary across workers within firms -- and how "compressed" should pay be within firms? Should firms pay workers for their performance on the job or for their skills or hours of work? How are pay and promotions structured across jobs to induce optimal effort from employees? Why do firms use teams and how are teams used most effectively? How should all these human resource management practices, from incentive pay to teamwork, be combined within firms? Personnel economists offer new tools to analyze these questions -- and new answers as well.'] ['The theory below is that entrepreneurs must be jacks-of-all-trades who need not excel in any one skill but are competent in many. A model of the choice to become an entrepreneur is presented. The primary implication is that individuals with balanced skills are more likely than others to become entrepreneurs. Using data on Stanford alumni, the predictions are tested and found to hold. Those who have varied work and educational backgrounds are much more likely to start their own businesses than those who have focused on one role at work or concentrated in one subject at school.'] ["Edward Lazear and James Poterba, both members of the President's Advisory Panel on Federal Tax Reform, explain the need for tax reform, and how the Panel's proposals are geared to bring about higher growth, simplification that saves filing time, and fairness."] ['Supporters of government programs often look for ways to incorporate pet transfers into an existing system. Health and disability concerns may suggest some social insurance, but a private market that is sufficiently broad could accomplish this. Integration of many programs under one umbrella creates distortions. Forced saving is the main goal of social security and it can be served well by private accounts.'] ['Personal accounts provide the benefits of the government run Social Security program without the problems. Specifically, personal accounts are more consistent with economic principles, avoid government moral hazard, and provide more security than government Social Security.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Some have observed that individuals perform worse after being promoted. The Peter principle, which states that people are promoted to their level of incompetence, suggests that something is fundamentally misaligned in the promotion process. This view is unnecessary and inconsistent with the data. Below, it is argued that ability appears lower after promotion purely as a statistical matter. Being promoted is evidence that a standard has been met. Regression to the mean implies that future ability will be lower, on average. Firms optimally account for the regression bias in making promotion decisions, but the effect is never eliminated. Rather than evidence of a mistake, the Peter principle is a necessary consequence of any promotion rule. Furthermore, firms that take it into account appropriately adopt an optimal strategy. Usually, firms inflate the promotion criterion to offset the Peter principle effect, and the more important the transitory component is relative to total variation in ability, the larger the amount that the standard is inflated. The same logic applies to other situations. For example, it explains why movie sequels are worse than the original film on which they are based and why second visits to restaurants are less rewarding than the first.'] ['Internal labor markets are those where workers are hired into entry level jobs and higher levels are filled from within. Wages are determined internally and may be quite free of market pressure. External labor markets imply that workers move somewhat fluidly between firms and wages are determined by some aggregate process where firms do not have significant discretion over wage setting. There are a number of theories that lead to internal labor markets. Using data from Sweden from the late 1980s, it is found that although there is significant evidence of internal promotion being important, a significant external market exists that affects both wage setting and hiring patterns. Even in Sweden, which most would not choose as the best example of a free labor market, external factors seem to create strong discipline on the ability of firms to set wages.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Classroom education has public good aspects. The technology is such that when one student disrupts the class, learning is reduced for all other students. A disruption model of educational production is presented. It is shown that optimal class size is larger for better-behaved students, which helps explain why it is difficult to find class size effects in the data. Additionally, the role of discipline is analyzed and applied to differences in performance of Catholic and public schools. An empirical framework is discussed where the importance of sorting students, teacher quality, and other factors can be assessed. \xc2\xa9 2001 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['Much of the theory in personnel economics relates to effects of monetary incentives on output, but the theory was untested because appropriate data were unavailable. A new data set for the Safelite Glass Corporation tests the predictions that average productivity will rise, the firm will attract a more able workforce, and variance in output across individuals at the firm will rise when it shifts to piece rates. In Safelite, productivity effects amount to a 44-percent increase in output per worker. This firm apparently had selected a suboptimal compensation system, as profits also increased with the change.'] [' Personnel economics has grown over the past 20 years to become a major branch of labour economics. Although much has been learned, many important questions remain. For example, are worker wage profiles dependent on individual attributes or is the firm more important in determining wage growth? Why are executives so highly paid and why does pay take the form that it does? How can cross-country differences in pay patterns be explained? Does variable pay provide better incentives than fixed hourly wages? Under which circumstances is one form of compensation used over another? These questions and others are investigated and some conjectures offered.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Economics is not only a social science, it is a genuine science. Like the physical sciences, economics uses a methodology that produces refutable implications and tests these implications using solid statistical techniques. In particular, economics stresses three factors that distinguish it from other social sciences. Economists use the construct of rational individuals who engage in maximizing behavior. Economic models adhere strictly to the importance of equilibrium as part of any theory. Finally, a focus on efficiency leads economists to ask questions that other social sciences ignore. These ingredients have allowed economics to invade intellectual territory that was previously deemed to be outside the discipline's realm. \xc2\xa9 2000 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology"] [' The globalization of firms is explored at theoretical and empirical levels. The idea is that a global firm is a multicultural team. The existence of a global firm is somewhat puzzling. Combining workers who have different cultures, legal systems, and languages imposes costs on the firm that would not be present were all workers to conform to one standard. In order to offset the costs of cross-cultural dealing, there must be complementarities between the workers that are sufficiently important to overcome the costs. The search for the best practice is analyzed and empirical support from an examination of trading patterns is provided.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Common culture and common language facilitate trade between people. Minorities have incentives to become assimilated and to learn the majority language so that they have a larger pool of potential trading partners. The value of assimilation is larger to someone from a small minority than to one from a large minority group. When a society has a very large majority of individuals from one culture, individuals from minority groups will be assimilated more quickly. Assimilation is less likely when an immigrant's native culture and language is broadly represented in his new country. Also, when governments protect minority interests directly, incentives to be assimilated into the majority culture are reduced. Both factors may explain the recent rise in multiculturalism. Individuals do not properly internalize the social value of assimilation and ignore the benefits others receive when they learn the majority language and become assimilated. In a pluralistic society, a government policy that encourages diverse cultural immigration over concentrated immigration is likely to increase the welfare of the population. In the absence of strong offsetting effects, policies which encourage multi- culturalism reduce the amount of trade and have adverse welfare consequences. Conversely, policies that subsidize assimilation and the acquisition of majority language skills can be socially beneficial. The theory is tested and confirmed by examining U.S. Census data, which reveals that the likelihood that an immigrant will learn English is inversely related to the proportion of the local population that speaks his or her native language.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' Individuals involved in basic research, like other workers, respond to incentives. Funding agencies provide implicit incentives when they specify the rules by which awards are made. The following analysis is an exercise in understanding incentives at an applied level. Specific rules are examined. What is the effect of rewarding past effort? What happens when a few large awards are replaced by many small awards? How does the timing of an award affect effort? How does an agency choose which topics to fund? Socially optimal rules are derived. Copyright 1997 by University of Chicago Press.'] [' Sellers sometimes practice a form of false advertising known as bait and switch. A low-priced good is advertised but replaced by a different good at the showroom. The practice is surprising since advertising the wrong good discourages the appropriate buyers from shopping, attracting customers who will be disappointed when they see the good. Firms bait and switch to draw a greater number of shoppers. The cost is that some who would have bought the good that is for sale may not bother to look. Under a variety of conditions, bait and switch is a profitable strategy resulting in a fully rational equilibrium with false advertising. Copyright 1995 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Partnerships and profit sharing are often claimed to motivate workers by giving them a share of the pie. But in organizations of any significant size, the free-rider effects would seem to choke off any motivational forces. This analysis explores how peer pressure operates and how factors such as profit sharing, shame, guilt, norms, mutual monitoring, and empathy interact to create incentives in the firm. The argument that Japanese firms enjoy team spirit because compensation is linked to overall profitability is analyzed. An explanation for the prevalence of partnerships among individuals in similar occupations is provided. Copyright 1992 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['This essay is a discussion of how economists are attempting to understand institutions within the organizations of the labor market. The institutions and issues discussed include mandatory retirement; discontinuous jumps in wages; pay compression; rights of tenure; up-or-out hierarchies; timing of raises, promotions and evaluations; the existence of partnerships; the use of bonuses vs. penalties; and pay as a motivator.'] [' European countries have enacted various job security provisions over the last thirty years. Employers are required to pay workers on separation or to give advance notice of termination. In anything less than a perfectly functioning market, there are effects of the provisions on employment. Incumbents are more likely to retain their jobs, but new workers are less likely to be hired. An examination of the European data suggests that severance pay requirements reduce employment. Copyright 1990, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [" Much of the male-female wage differential exists because men and women are assigned to different jobs. Within narrow job categories, there is no male-female differential. Only a tortured taste theory of discrimination can reconcile these facts. The authors argue that differential movement along job ladders entails comparative advantage, so the ability standard for promotion is higher for women. This implies that more able women will be passed over in favor of less able men. Women, assumed to have the same ability distribution as men, earn less. The differential reflects females' lower promotion probability, not within-job discrimination. Copyright 1990 by University of Chicago Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Personnel managers often argue that equitable pay treatment manifested as wage compression is useful because it reduces disharmony among workers. But it is far from obvious that a compressed salary structure is morale improving since better workers may feel disenchanted by this scheme. However, when workers' rewards are based on relative comparisons, salary compression reduces uncooperative behavior that is detrimental to the firm. Relative comparisons imply that some reference group must be selected. The major result is that, within the relevant groups, some wage compression is efficient. Copyright 1989 by University of Chicago Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Sellers of new products are faced with having to guess demand conditions to set price appropriately. But sellers are able to adjustprice over time and to learn from past mistakes. Additionally, it is not necessary that all goods be sold with certainty. It is sometimes better to set a high price and to risk no sale. This process is modeledto explain retail pricing behavior and the time distribution of transactions. Prices start high and fall as a function of time on theshelf. The initial price and rate of decline can be predicted and depends on thinness of the market, the proportion of customers who are"window shoppers," and other observable characteristics. Copyright 1986 by American Economic Association.'] [' The 1970 and 1979 Current Population Surveys are used to compute the personal distribution of income. The major innovation in this paper is that all individuals in the household are not treated identically. In particular, children receive a different proportion of income than do adults. That proportion is estimated. Its variations with respect to household characteristics are discussed, and a final distribution of personal income is computed. That distribution has considerably fatter tails than does the one normally used. Copyright 1986 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['With the growth of the literature on incentive compensation has come the belief by some that incentive pay may be less rigid than pay that is not designed to effect incentives. Some have gone so far as to argue that this may explain differences in unemployment rates across countries. it is shown that there is no direct link between incentives and wage rigidity. Many compensation schemes that provide incentives have the reverse effect: That is, they tend to make wages more rigid than would be the case were incentives not an issue atall. This paper explores the relationship between wage rigidity and the provision of incentives in a variety of circumstances.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Excessive layoffs in bad times and excessive quits in good times both stem from the same weakness in practical employment arrangements: the specific nature of worker-firm relations creates a situation of bilateral monopoly. Institutions which have arisen to avert the associated inefficiency cannot mimic the separation decisions of a perfect-information, first-best allocation rule. Simple employment rules based on predetermined or indexed wages are in many cases the most desirable among the class of feasible employment arrangements. More complicated contracts which seem to deal more effectively with turnover issues are either infeasible because of informational requirements or create adverse incentives on some other dimension.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["A common theme which runs through much of the investment literature is that private incentives may lead to sub-optimal levels of investment activity. The idea has been extended casually to consideration of human capital investment as well. It is sometimes contended that decisions, made by parents, have adverse effects on their offspring, which could be prevented if inter-generational contracts could be struck. If so, a case can be made for government intervention or subsidization programs to alleviate these intergenerational externalities. Specifically, the sub-optimal investment in offspring human capital may take such obvious forms as poor clothing, too little health care, or too few resources devoted to the child's education. Less obvious externalities may result when parents underinvest in themselves because they fail to consider spillover benefits to their children. Parental schooling, for example, may affect the child's ability (or desire) to learn. Dietary patterns established by parents for themselves may influence the child's eating habits and affect his health. More directly, healthy parents are less likely to transmit diseases to their offspring. This paper will examine the effects of these intergenerational externalities in greater detail.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['This paper sets up a microeconomic theory of labor unions. It discusses their formation and goals, their hierarchical structure, and the nature of rent distribution. The theory provides predictions for the probability that an industry or occupation will be unionized, the proportion of that industry that will be unionized, and observed wage differentials within that industry. It discusses the way that those values change in response to changes in the supply of labor, demand for labor, cost of organizing the union, and cost of defeating the union. Institutions such as featherbedding, fringe benefits, and seniority are rationalized in this framework. The model is consistent with competitive factor and product markets.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper analyzes compensation schemes which pay according to an individual's ordinal rank in an organization rather than his output level. When workers are risk neutral, it is shown that wages based upon rank induce the same efficient allocation of resources as an incentive reward scheme based on individual output levels. Under some circumstances, risk-averse workers actually prefer to be paid on the basis of rank. In addition, if workers are heterogeneous inability, low-quality workers attempt to contaminate high-quality firms, resulting in adverse selection. However, if ability is known in advance, a competitive handicapping structure exists which allows all workers to compete efficiently in the same organization.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In this paper, another aspect of optimizing behavior is considered. Specifically, it asks whether variations in levels of attained schooling across groups can be explained by a model that assumes that capital markets are perfect and that individuals maximize wealth. The logic of the analysis proceeds as follows: First, a model is constructed that allows estimation of costs and returns to education for each individual, based on the assumption that all individuals face the same borrowing rates. Given costs and returns, one can obtain an optimal wealth-maximizing level of education for each individual. Differences between actually acquired and wealth-maximizing levels of education can then be calculated, and one can determine whether or not the residuals are systematically related to background variables. If, for example, low-income individuals have a consistently larger estimated wealth-maximizing level of education than actual level, one could conclude either that returns to schooling differed between groups or that capital market differences exist. The model allows these two explanations to be distinguished. Since differential returns are caused by wage differences across groups, the wealth-maximizing level can take these labor market variations into account. Any residual variation will be due to factors other than differential wage rates, presumably capital cost differences .<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["It can be claimed that education is simply a normal consumption good and that like all other normal goods, an increase in wealth will produce an increase in the amount of schooling purchased. Increased incomes are associated with higher schooling attainment as the simple result of an income effect. If this is so, schooling increases an individual's wealth only by the consumption value of the good, since it is a non-saleable asset. This paper will attempt to determine empirically the amount by which an increase in wealth is caused by schooling as distinguished from the amount by which the demand for schooling increases as the result of an increase in wealth.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["During the past decade, much has been said about the role that on-the-job training plays in augmenting one's stock of human capital. Up to this point, little has been done to distinguish the effect of on-the-job training from that of aging on the increase in human wealth. The reason rests primarily on the fact that it is difficult to observe or even define in some appropriate way the amount of on-the-job training that an individual possesses. In this paper, a method is developed by which one may compare the effects of work experience to those of aging per se. The difference is then attributed to on-the-job training.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"]