 [" This paper develops three considerations relevant to the possibility of modification of the Hong Kong currency board system for conducting monetary/exchange-rate policy. The first concerns the system employed by Singapore, an economy similar in several ways to Hong Kong's, whereby the exchange rate is adjusted periodically in activist response to inflation and output developments. The second concerns a generalization, one that calls for adjustments of a weighted average of exchange rate and interest rate instruments, so designed to be effective whether the economy is, or is not, in a liquidity-trap situation. Finally, the third topic concerns political-economy aspects of policy, which tend to incline against the use of the activist systems."] ['En este documento se eval\xc3\xbaan las diferentes alternativas que los investigadores han empleado para incluir la cantidad de dinero en los modelos neokeynesianos que los bancos centrales utilizan para conducir la pol\xc3\xadtica monetaria. Se concluye diciendo que, a la fecha, no existe evidencia suficiente que justifique la incorporaci\xc3\xb3n del dinero en la estructura de los modelos neokeynesianos.'] ['Several arguments are relevant. (1) In the absence of the zero lower bound (ZLB), the optimal steady-state inflation rate, according to standard reasoning, lies between deflation at the steady-state real interest rate and the Calvo-model value of zero, with calibration indicating a larger weight on the latter. (2) An attractive modification of the Calvo equation would imply that the weight on the second of these should be zero. (3) There may be some scope for monetary policy to be effective even at the ZLB. (4) Elimination of currency is feasible and would remove the ZLB constraint. (5) Increasing target inflation would undermine the rationale for central bank independence and constitute an additional movement away from intertemporal discipline.'] ['Consider a rational expectations (RE) model that includes a relationship between variables x t and z t+1 . To be considered structural and potentially useful as a guide to actual behavior, this model must specify whether x t is influenced by the expectation at t of z t+1 or, alternatively, that z t+1 is directly influenced (via some inertial mechanism) by x t (i.e., that z t is influenced by x t-1 ). These are quite different phenomena. Here it is shown that, for a very broad class of multivariate linear RE models, distinct causal specifications involving both expectational and inertial influences will be uniquely associated with distinct solutions--which will result operationally from different specifications concerning which of the model\'s variables are predetermined. It follows that for a given structure, and with a natural continuity assumption, there is only one RE solution that is fully consistent with the model\'s specification. Furthermore, this solution does not involve "sunspot" phenomena.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" The timeless-perspective approach suggests that policymakers implement in each period policy actions conforming to a rule that would have been fully optimal to adopt in the distant past. A motivating advantage is that policy henceforth would continue by recommending the same optimality conditions if reconsidered, thereby enhancing credibility. We argue that continuation can alternatively be achieved with better results, on average, in terms of policymakers' objectives, by implementing in each period the time-invariant policy that is optimal from the viewpoint of the contemporary understanding of objectives and constraints, but while ignoring the conditions that happen to prevail at the time. Copyright (c) 2010 The Ohio State University."] ["To be useful as a guide to behavior, a model that includes a relationship between x_t and z_t+1 must specify whether x_t is influenced by the expectation at t of z_t+1 or, that z_t+1 is inertially influenced by x_t. We show that, for a broad class of linear RE models, distinct causal specifications will be uniquely associated with distinct solutions. Alternatively, a solution refinement requiring continuity of solution coefficients with respect to basic parameters implies this same solution. For a given structure there is only one RE solution that is fully consistent with the model's specification."] ['The United States Constitution evidently calls for monetary arrangements with a strict metallic standard-gold, silver, or bimetallic. How were these provisions overturned so as to result in todayfs fiat- money arrangement with no trace of a metallic standard? A crucial step involved Supreme Court decisions after the Civil War with regard to the constitutionality of the fiat ggreenbacksh issued during the war. The reasoning expounded by the Supreme Court in these decisions relied importantly on a failure to distinguish between monetary and fiscal policy provisions. Essentially the same failure has been present in much of the recent discussion concerning the financial crisis of 2007-09.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['So-called "spurious regression" relationships are generally accompanied by clear signs of residual autocorrelation. A conscientious researcher would likely re-estimate with an autocorrelation correction. Simulations indicate that resulting test statistics are close to true values, so do not yield spurious results.'] ['Cochrane (2007) has strongly questioned the basic economic logic of current monetary policy analysis, arguing that New Keynesian (NK) models imply rational expectations paths with explosive inflation that do not imply explosions in real variables relevant for transversality conditions. Consequently, the usual logic does not rule out solutions with explosive inflation. That result does not, however, justify negative conclusions about NK analysis, for a different criterion is logically satisfactory. It is that, to be plausible, a RE solution must satisfy the property of least-squares learnability. Adoption of this criterion serves to justify in principle the bulk of current mainstream analysis.'] ['This paper argues against determinacy as a guide to interpret rational expectations solutions, using an example in which a determinate solution exists but differs sharply in dynamic behavior from that implied by the model considered on a sector-by-sector basis.'] ['Contemporary literature on monetary policy analysis concludes that use of an interest rate policy rule that responds to expected inflation in some future period may generate indeterminacy - a multiplicity of stable rational expectations (RE) solutions. By contrast, this article argues that in these analyses only one of the solutions possesses the property of learnability, which is necessary for the plausibility of any RE solution since its absence implies that there is no way for individuals to obtain enough information to form expectations that would support the solution in question. Thus indeterminacy of the type discussed is not an actual problem for actual policymakers.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['It is well known that the concept of "determinacy"-a single stable solution-plays a major role in contemporary monetary policy analysis. But while determinacy is desirable, other things equal, it is not necessary for a solution to be plausible and is not sufficient for a solution to be desirable. There is a related but distinct criterion of " learnability" that seems more crucial. This paper argues that recognition of information feasibility requires that a candidate solution must, to be plausible, be quantitatively learnable on the basis of information generated by the economy itself. Since a prominent least- squares (LS) learning process is highly "biased" toward learnability, it is reasonable to regard it as a necessary condition for any specific solution to be relevant. This implies that determinacy is not necessary for policy analysis; there may be more than one stable solution, but only one that is LS learnable. Also, determinacy is not sufficient for satisfactory policy analysis; explosive solutions pertaining to nominal variables will not be eliminated by transversality conditions. For these and other reasons, the role of determinacy in monetary policy analysis should be reconsidered and substantially de-emphasized.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['These remarks were presented at the 2008 International Conference, gFrontiers in Monetary Theory and Policy,h held by the Institute for Monetary and Economic Studies, Bank of Japan, in Tokyo on May 28-29, 2008. I am grateful to Marvin Goodfriend for many helpful discussions.'] ['This paper compares the P-bar model of price adjustment with the currently dominant Calvo specification. Theoretically, the P-bar model is more attractive as it depends on adjustment costs for physical quantities rather than nominal prices, while incorporating a one-period information lag. Furthermore, the resulting adjustment relation is more completely free of "money illusion," in terms of dynamic relationships, and therefore satisfies the natural-rate hypothesis of Lucas [1972a. Econometric testing of the natural rate hypothesis. In: Eckstein, O. (Ed.), The Econometrics of Price Determination. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System], which is not satisfied by the Calvo model in any of its variants. Along the way, it shows that both the P-bar and Calvo models can be formulated in distinct versions in which current real wages are, or are not, allocative. Quantitatively, for a given calibration of the demand parameters, the implied time-series properties of the inflation rate, output gap, and nominal interest rate are determined for various policy parameters, and are compared with quarterly data for the US economy. Neither model dominates but, overall, the comparison seems somewhat more favorable to the P-bar model and certainly does not provide support for the dominant position held by the Calvo model in current monetary policy analysis.'] ["It is argued that learnability/E-stability is a necessary condition for a RE solution to be plausible. A class of linear models considered by Evans and Honkapohja (2001) is shown to include all models of the form used by King and Watson (1998) and Klein (2000), which permits any number of lags, leads, and lags of leads. For this broad class it is shown that, if current-period information is available in the learning process, determinacy is a sufficient condition for E-stability. It is not a necessary condition, however; there exist cases with more than one stable solution in which the solution based on the decreasing-modulus ordering of the system's eigenvalues is E-stable. If in such a case the other stable solution(s) are not E-stable, then the condition of indeterminacy may not be important for practical issues.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['The paper reconsiders the role of money and banking in monetary policy analysis by including a banking sector and money in an optimizing model otherwise of a standard type. The model is implemented quantitatively, with a calibration based on U.S. data. It is reasonably successful in providing an endogenous explanation for substantial steady-state differentials between the interbank policy rate and (i) the collateralized loan rate, (ii) the uncollateralized loan rate, (iii) the T-bill rate, (iv) the net marginal product of capital, and (v) a pure intertemporal rate. We find a differential of over 3 % pa between (iii) and (iv), thereby contributing to resolution of the equity premium puzzle. Dynamic impulse response functions imply pro-or-counter-cyclical movements in an external finance premium that can be of quantitative significance. In addition, they suggest that a central bank that fails to recognize the distinction between interbank and other short rates could miss its appropriate settings by as much as 4% pa. Also, shocks to banking productivity or collateral effectiveness call for large responses in the policy rate.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The Monetary Authority of Singapore conducts policy by adjusting the Singapore dollarfs effective exchange rate so as to achieve macroeconomic goals for the economyfs inflation rate and output gap. Estimates of a policy rule of the Taylor type, except with exchange rate appreciation serving as the instrument/indicator variable, substantiate this interpretation. That this rule reflects policy that is much like inflation targeting is evidenced by the absence of any significant role for the real exchange rate as a distinct target variable in addition to inflation and the output gap. Simulations with a dynamic model of a small open economy illustrate that this type of rule can be relatively more advantageous in economies that (like Singapore) are extremely open to international trade. The analysis illustrates that monetary policy and exchange rate policy are two sides of the same coin, which suggests that assignment of exchange rate management to a nationfs fiscal authority is an anachronism.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' For introductory presentation of issues involving simultaneous equation systems, a natural vehicle consists of supply and demand relationships for a single good. One would expect to find in econometrics textbooks a supply-demand example featuring actual data in which structural estimation methods yield more satisfactory results than does ordinary least squares. But a search of 26 existing textbooks finds no example with actual data in which all crucial parameter estimates are of the proper sign and are statistically significant. The present article accordingly develops a simple but satisfying example, for broiler chickens, based on U.S. annual data from 1960 to 1999. (JEL C30) Copyright 2006, Oxford University Press.'] ['The paper reviews issues related to the zero lower bound (ZLB) on interest rates and argues that all of the following propositions are invalid: (1) in a ZLB situation, gshaping interest rate expectations is essentially the only tool that central bankers haveh (Bernanke, Reinhart, and Sack [2004]); (2) fiscal policy actions such as ghelicopter dropsh are in theory more effective than monetary policy actions; (3) the prominent gfoolproof wayh policy rule of Svensson (2001, 2003) is applicable more generally?that is, even when exact uncovered interest parity holds?than the alternative exchange rate rule of McCallum (2000); (4) both of the exchange rate strategies described in (3) are open to the objection that they constitute gbeggar-thy-neighborh approaches; and (5) there is a significant danger of ZLB difficulties stemming from a g deflationary traph type of equilibrium, as distinct from a gliquidity trap.h'] ['Dynamic optimizing models with an IS-LM-type structure and slow price adjustments have been used for much recent monetary policy analysis, but usually with capital and investment treated as exogenous a significant restriction. This paper demonstrates that investment decisions can be endogenized without undue complexity in such models and that these can be calibrated to provide reasonably realistic dynamic behavior. It is necessary, however, to include capital adjustment costs; models with no adjustment costs match cyclical data very poorly. Indeed, their match is considerably poorer than models with constant capital. The paper also finds that the preferred adjustment-cost specification is not close to quadratic.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Svensson (2003) argues strongly that specific targeting rules-first-order optimality conditions for a specific objective function and model-are normatively superior to instrument rules for the conduct of monetary policy. That argument is based largely on four main objections to the latter, plus a claim concerning the relative interest-instrument variability entailed by the two approaches. The present paper considers the four objections in turn and advances arguments that contradict all of them. Then, in the paper's analytical sections, it is demonstrated that the variability claim is incorrect, for a neo-canonical model and also for a variant with one-period-ahead plans used by Svensson, providing that the same decisionmaking errors are relevant under the two alternative approaches. Arguments relating to general targeting rules and actual central bank practice are also included.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['The following are comments in response to Lars Svensson\'s "Targeting versus Instrument Rules for Monetary Policy: What Is Wrong with McCallum and Nelson?"'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper addresses a prominent empirical failure of the expectations theory of the term structure of interest rates under the assumption of rational expectations. This failure concerns the magnitude of slope coefficients in regressions of short rate (or long- rate) changes on long-short spreads. It is shown that the anomalous empirical findings can be rationalized with the expectations theory by recognition of an exogenous random (but possibly autoregressive) term premium plus the assumption that monetary policy involves smoothing of an interest rate instrument -- the short rate -- together with the responses to the prevailing level of the spread.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' The fiscal theory of the price level (FTPL) has attracted much attention but disagreement remains concerning its defining characteristics. Some writers have emphasized implications regarding interest-rate pegging and determinacy of rational expectations solutions, whereas others have stressed its capacity to generate equilibria in which price-level trajectories mimic those of bonds and differ drastically from those of money supplies. We argue that the FTPL attained prominence precisely because it appeared to provide a theory whose implications differ greatly from conventional monetary analysis; accordingly we review monetarist writings to identify the primary distinctions. In addition, we review recent findings concerning learnability--and therefore plausibility--of competing rational expectations equilibria. These indicate that when FTPL and monetarist equilibria differ, the latter are more plausible in the vast majority of cases. Under Ricardian assumptions, necessary for clear distinctions, theoretical analysis indicates that fiscal and monetary coordination is not necessary for macroeconomic stability. Copyright 2005, Oxford University Press.'] ['In forward-looking models for monetary policy analysis, the conditions for full conditional optimality are not time invariant, and as a consequence imply an incentive each period for the central bank to depart from its previous optimized plan. The conditional "commitment" plan is therefore strategically incoherent. Discretionary optimality does not have this problem, but yields inferior performance. A "timeless perspective" policy rule proposed by Woodford (1999, 2003) is intended to overcome the incoherence and noncredibility of the commitment plan while yielding performance superior to that of discretionary policy behavior; this rule has received much attention. A fourth "fully timeless" alternative differs slightly from the timeless perspective rule; it is unambiguously superior from an unconditional perspective but does not dominate from the conditional perspective. The paper discusses comparisons at some length and briefly considers the sustainability of these policy strategies.'] [' (1) Medium-of-exchange money will not entirely disappear in the foreseeable future. (2) In economies with no currency but settlement balances at the central bank, policy can be conducted much as at present by activist adjustment of overnight interest rates. (3) In economies without any money there can be no monetary policy. Liabilities of some official entity might serve as the medium of account, but there could be rivals. (4) A broad commodity-bundle monetary standard could be viable, even with a redemption medium, and there is scope for quantitative analysis of such systems. (5) The number of distinct national currencies may decline sharply. Copyright 2004 Blackwell Publishing Ltd'] ['This paper reviews the distinction between the timeless perspective and discretionary modes of monetary policymaking, the former representing rule-based policy as formalized by Woodford (1999). In models with forward-looking expectations, this distinction is important because discretionary policymaking&gt; produces a second inefficiency distinct from the familiar inflationary bias. The authors present calculations of the quantitative magnitude of this second inefficiency and find in all of the cases examined that the unconditional average performance of timeless perspective policymaking is at least as good as that provided by optimal discretionary behavior.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper considers the possibility that, in linear rational expectations (RE) models, all determinate (uniquely non-explosive) solutions coincide with the minimum state variable (MSV) solution, which is unique by construction. In univariate specifications of the form y(t) = AE(t)y(t+1) + Cy(t-1) + u(t) that result holds: if a RE solution is unique and non-explosive, then it is the same as the MSV solution. Also, this result holds for multivariate versions if the A and C matrices commute and a certain regularity condition holds. More generally, however, there are models of this form that possess unique non-explosive solutions that differ from their MSV solutions. Examples are provided and a strategy for easily constructing others is outlined.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Arguments are developed concerning a number of topics including long-run monetary neutrality, superneutrality, the natural-rate hypothesis, the quantity theory of money, the equation of exchange, the Fisher equation, and purchasing power parity. These are basic, fundamental topics that all students of monetary economics refer to frequently, but there is evidently considerable disagreement concerning their exact nature. Some of the disagreement has likely been generated by the recent practice by monetary economists of conducting monetary policy analysis in models that include no mention of any monetary variable such as Ml or the monetary base--thereby reflecting the actual policy practice of most central banks. It is argued that these models are consistent in most important ways with highly traditional monetary analysis. More generally, relationships among the various topics are developed and the validity of empirical tests (e.g., cointegration tests) relating to several of the topics are reconsidered.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper discusses four current topics in monetary policy analysis, each of which hinges on the possibility of multiple solutions in rational expectations (RE) models. In three of these cases--involving inflation forecast targeting, the zero-lower bound deflation trap, and the fiscal theory of the price level--analysis based on E-stability and adaptive learnability of the solutions suggests that only one of them is a viable equilibrium candidate. Thus the dangers alleged to prevail, in these cases, are not ones with which actual policymakers need to be concerned. In the case of the Taylor principle, by contrast, policy behavior that violates the principle is genuinely undesirable, since all of the RE equilibria fail to be learnable.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper presents a prototype model for development of the \xe2\x80\x9cfiscal theory of the price level.\xe2\x80\x9d In this simple setting, the fiscal theory\xe2\x80\x99s distinctiveness relies upon adoption of a bubble solution, rather than the rational-expectations fundamentals solution. The paper then shows that the fiscal solution is not adaptively learnable, by agents who estimate coefficients relevant for forecasting on the basis of available data, whereas the orthodox \xe2\x80\x9cmonetarist\xe2\x80\x9d solution exists and is learnable. Finally, it is argued that similar results should be expected to apply in more complex models. JEL Nos. E5, E6, D8. Keywords: Monetary theory, fiscal theory, price level determination, learning, rational expectations.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Both academic thinking about monetary economics and the practice of monetary policy have changed dramatically since 1971-1973, when the rational expectations revolution was beginning and the Bretton Woods system was crumbling. The present paper considers whether the various changes that have taken place were influenced primarily by economic theory or by empirical evidence-or by a combination of the two. Monetary economics, like macroeconomics more generally, passed through the rational expectations period into one dominated by real business cycle (RBC) analysis, which denies monetary policy any significant role in the generation or the dampening of cyclical fluctuations in crucial real variables. Recently, however, the analysis of monetary policy by both academic and central bank economists has been increasingly conducted in small quantitative structural models that combine the optimizing aspect of RBC analysis with various assumptions implying real effects of monetary policy actions due to slow adjustment of nominal prices. These models therefore attempt to combine rather strict theoretical discipline with features that permit an enhanced degree of empirical veracity. It is apparent, accordingly, that both theoretical and empirical analysis have been essential in bringing about alterations in monetary policy analysis between 1971-1973 and 1998.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["Several recent papers have usefully emphasized the inefficiency that arises from discretionary monetary policymaking, relative to optimal policy from a 'timeless perspective,' in macroeconomic models with forward-looking private behavior. The inefficiency in question is in terms of average outcomes of the conditional expectation of a policy objective that reflects the discounted present value of current and future period losses (which involve squared deviations of inflation and output from specified target levels). In the literature, most of the analysis has been conducted in an optimizing model that features a Calvo-Rotemberg price adjustment equation that includes a 'cost-push' shock term. This literature suggests that policy, which keeps inflation equal to a negative multiple of the change in the output gap, is optimal with respect to the criterion mentioned above -- the unconditional expectation of the policymaker's objective function. Results reported here show, however, that this is not the case -- that an alternative policy rule, suggested by the approach of 'policy design' rather than by 'optimal control,' delivers superior results.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['This paper considers whether "liquidity trap" issues have important bearing on the desirability of inflation targeting as a strategy for monetary policy. From a theoretical perspective, it has been suggested that "expectation trap" and "indeterminacy" dangers are created by variants of inflation targeting, the latter when forecasts of future inflation enter the policy rule. This paper argues that these alleged dangers are probably not of practical importance. From an empirical perspective, a quantitative open-economy model is developed and the likelihood of encountering a liquidity trap is explored for several policy rules. Also, it is emphasized that, if the usual interest rate instrument is immobilized by a liquidity trap, there is still an exchange-rate channel by means of which monetary policy can exert stabilizing effects. The relevant target variable can still be the inflation rate.'] ["The recently-developed fiscal theory of price level determination contends that there is an important class of policy rules in which there exists a unique rational expectations solution that shows the price level to be dependent upon fiscal policy and independent of monetary variables. The present paper argues, however, that there is an alternative solution to these models that has entirely traditional (or monetarist') properties. This latter solution is perhaps the more plausible since it is the solution that is typically regarded as the bubble-free fundamentals' solution. The argument involves a respecification of feasible instrument variables.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["Much recent monetary policy analysis has featured stochastic simulations with small structural macroeconomic models that include: a spending vs. saving ( IS') sector; a price-adjustment sector; and an interest rate policy rule. The first two are frequently specified so as to reflect optimizing behavior; policy may or may not be specified as optimizing depending on the study's objectives. Some leading issues concern modifications to simple quantitative optimizing models that are needed to generate realistic degrees of persistence in inflation and output-gap variables. A major policy issue is whether it is desirable for monetary policy to respond strongly to the output gap. The paper argues that the latter is unobservable and considers the implications of using a trend-type measure while the true concept is of a type more in keeping with basic theory. In such circumstances, highly undesirable consequences are likely to ensue if policy responds strongly to the measured gap.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["The following arguments are developed: (i) models without monetary aggregates do not imply that inflation is a non-monetary phenomenon and are not necessarily non-monetary models; (ii) theoretical considerations suggest that such models are misspecified, but the quantitative significance of this misspecification is very small; (iii) some prominent arguments based on indeterminacy' findings are of dubious merit: there are reasons for believing that findings of solution multiplicity are theoretical curiosities that have no real world significance; (iv) monetary policy rules that violate the Taylor principle, by contrast, possess another characteristic the absence of E-stability that suggests undesirable behavior in practice.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' The "new open-economy macroeconomics" seeks to provide an improved bias for monetary and exchange-rate policy through the construction of open-economy models that feature rational expectations, optimizing agents, and slowly adjusting prices of goods. This paper promotes an alternative approach for constructing such models by treating imports not as finished consumer goods but rather as raw-material inputs to the home economy\'s productive process. This treatment leads to a clean and simple theoretical structure that has some empirical attractions as well. A particular small-economy model is calibrated and its properties exhibited, primarily by means of impulse response functions. The preferred variant is shown to feature a pattern of correlations between exchange-rate changes and inflation that is more realistic than provided by a more standard specification. Important recent events are interpreted in light of the alternative models. Copyright 2000 by Oxford University Press.'] ["This paper conducts counterfactual historical analysis of several monetary policy rules by contrasting actual settings of instrument variables with values that would have been specified by the rules in response to prevailing conditions. Of particular interest is whether major policy mistakes, judged ex post, would have been prevented by candidate rules. The rules studied include those of Taylor and McCallum, previously considered by Alison Stuart, plus several additional combinations of instrument and target variables. The time spans examined are 1962-1998 for the U.S. and U.K., and 1972-1998 for Japan. In addition to various substantive findings, the paper develops several methodological arguments. A surprising result is that rules' messages are evidently more dependent upon the specification of their instrument than their target variable.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["To consider the prospects, looking 20-30 years into the future, for monetary policymaking in accordance with policy rules, one must evaluate their present importance. That requires some definition of what constitutes rule-based monetary policy in practice, since no actual central bank will ever be literally bound by any simple formula (or any strict optimal control scheme). Consideration of the rules-versus-discretion literature, plus more recent analysis by Woodford (1999), indicates that rule-based policy is conducted to satisfy relationships specified from a timeless perspective.' Given this conception, it seems reasonably clear that today's prominent regimes (e.g., inflation targeting) do largely represent rule-based policymaking. Whether these will prevail into the future will depend in part on political trends, but their fundamental soundness gives room for hope. Regarding the effects of a gradually diminishing role of money, it would appear that the feasibility and attractiveness of rule-based policymaking will not be seriously impaired so long as a tangible medium of exchange has some importance, even if small. In the complete absence of monetary transactions, there would be no monetary policy of any type, rule-based or discretionary. But it seems highly unlikely that money will disappear in the foreseeable future.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper explores several issues concerning a possible zero lower bound (ZLB) including its theoretical rationale; the magnitude of effects of low sustained inflation on real interest rates; the validity of analyzing monetary policy in models with no monetary variables; and the dynamic stabilizing properties of Taylor rules in a ZLB context. The most important argument, however, is that if the short nominal rate is immobilized at zero, there nevertheless exists a route for monetary stabilization policy to be effective-via the foreign exchange market. Its quantitative importance is examined in a calibrated, optimizing, open-economy model.'] [' We ask whether relations of the IS-LM type can sensibly be used for the aggregate demand portion of a dynamic optimizing general equilibrium model intended for analysis of issues regarding monetary policy and cyclical fluctuations. The main result is that only one change--the addition of a term regarding expected future income--is needed to make the IS function match a fully optimizing model, whereas no changes are needed for the LM function. This modification leads to a dynamic, forward-looking model of aggregate demand that is tractable and usable with a wide variety of aggregate supply specifications. Theoretical applications concerning price level determinacy and gradual price adjustment are included.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The purpose of this paper is to examine the merits of monetary policy rules that utilize as their principal target variable the level or growth rate of some aggregate measure of nominal spending, such as nominal GDP, rather than a monetary aggregate or an index of inflation. The main objective is to develop new results concerning the possible desirability of nominal income targeting in the context of a quantitative structural macroeconomic model that represents an improved and extended version of the semi-classical framework presented in Mc-Callum and Nelson (1998).<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['After a brief review of key developments in application of monetary theory to policy analysis, Bennett T. McCallum describes the central aspects of the typical framework used to analyze monetary policy rules. He reviews the methods used to study the effects of policy behavior and provides an example of how two rules (the McCallum rule and the Taylor rule) can be used to investigate recent monetary policy in Japan. His example shows why it may be important for central banks to develop monetary policy procedures based on monetary-aggregate as well as interest-rate instruments.'] [" This paper concerns the minimal-state-variable (MSV) criterion for selection among solutions in rational expectationsmodels that feature a multiplicity of paths that satisfy all of the model's conditions. It compares the MSVcriterion with others, including the widely used saddle-path (dynamic stability) criterion. It is emphasized that theMSV criterion can be viewed as a scientifically useful classification scheme that delineates the unique solutionthat is free of bubble components. In the process of demonstrating uniqueness for a broad class of linear models,the paper exposits a convenient computational procedure. Applications to current issues are outlined. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 1999"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper reports results of simulation exercises that explore several questions relating to the design of rules for monetary policy. Emphasis is given to issues raised by the concept of rule operationality, i.e., reliance on feasible instrument variables and information sets. Many of the results pertain to rules of the Taylor type -- i.e., with an interest rate instrument set in response to inflation and output-gap measures -- but some are reported for rules using a nominal income target and/or a monetary base instrument. The macroeconomic model utilized is small in scale but features a specification designed to represent rational dynamic optimizing choices by the economy's private agents. Saving and portfolio-balance behavior are expressed by optimizing versions of exceptional IS and LM functions, with gradual price adjustments specified differently in two variants of the model. One variant uses the well-known Calvo-Rotemberg price adjustment relation, whereas the second employs a newly-rationalized version of the Mussa-McCallum-Barro-Grossman P-bar model. Parameter values are estimated by instrumental variables on U.S. quarterly data for 1995-1996.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['An elementary exposition is presented of a convenient and practical solution procedure for a broad class of linear rational expectations models. The undetermined-coefficient approach utilized keeps the mathematics very simple and permits consideration of alternative solution criteria.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["This paper argues, first, that it is inappropriate to presume that central banks will, in the absence of any tangible precommitment technology, inevitably behave in a `discretionary' fashion that implies an inflationary bias. Furthermore, there is no necessary tradeoff between `flexibility and commitment.' Second, to the extent that the absence of any precommitment technology is nevertheless a problem, it will apply to a consolidated central bank-plus-government entity as well as to the central bank alone. Thus contracts between governments and central banks do not overcome the motivation for dynamic inconsistency, they merely relocate it. Several implications are discussed.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The authors conduct counterfactual stochastic simulations of B. T. McCallum's monetary policy rule for the United Kingdom. This rule targets nominal GDP using the monetary base as its instrument. It is able to secure a dramatic improvement in inflation performance compared with historical outturns, at the same time imposing few countervailing costs, measured in terms of output or instrument instability. An example is given of how the rule might be used at an operational level in the setting of U.K. monetary policy. Copyright 1996 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd and The Victoria University of Manchester"] ["This paper begins with an exposition of neoclassical growth theory, including several analytical results such as the distinction between golden-rule and optimal steady states. Next it emphasizes that the neoclassical approach fails to provide any explanation of steady-state growth in per capita values of output and consumption, and also cannot plausibly explain actual growth differences by reference to transitional episodes. Three types of endogenous growth models, which attempt to provide explanations of ongoing per-capita growth, are presented and discussed. The likelihood of strictly justifying steady-state growth with these models is very small, since it would require highly special parameter values, but the models' predictions may be reasonably accurate nevertheless.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper takes issue with two basic conclusions prevalent in the literature on central bank behavior. First, the paper argues that it is inappropriate to presume that central banks will, in the absence of any precommitment technology, necessarily behave in a 'discretionary' fashion that implies an inflationary bias. Since there is no functional connection between average rates of money creation (or inflation) and policy responsiveness to cyclical disturbances, it is entirely feasible for the bias to be avoided. In other words, there is no necessary tradeoff between 'flexibility and commitment.' Second, to the extent that the absence of any absolute precommitment technology is nevertheless a problem, it will apply to a consolidated central bank plus government entity as well as to the central bank alone. Thus contracts between governments and central banks do not overcome the motivation for dynamic inconsistency, they merely relocate it.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["This paper investigates the theoretical and empirical properties of a model of aggregate supply behavior that was introduced in the 1970s but has received inadequate attention. The model postulates that price changes occur so as to gradually eliminate discrepancies between actual and market-clearing values and to reflect expected changes in market-clearing values. Its implications are more 'classical' than most alternative formulations that reflect gradual price adjustment. Empirical results, which utilize a proxy for market-clearing output that is a function of fixed capital and the real price of oil, are moderately encouraging but not entirely supportive.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Much recent analysis of international monetary and fiscal policy issues, such as the choice of an exchange-rate regime or the design of a policy coordination scheme, has been conducted by stochastic simulations with multicountry econometric models. In these studies, it has become standard practice to consider alternative policy rules of a particular form that calls for departures of a policy instrument, from some \xe2\x80\x9cbaseline\xe2\x80\x9d reference path, that are proportional to deviations of a specified target variable from its own baseline path. The present paper argues, however, that this standard rule form is seriously defective for evaluating such issues because the implied rules (1) often fail to be operational and (2) have associated performance measures that can be misleading in important cases. An example is presented that concerns the international \xe2\x80\x9cassignment problem\xe2\x80\x9d of optimally pairing instruments with policy objectives.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The paper first presents reasons for viewing the uncovered interest-parity (VIP) relationship as more important, in terms of economic analysis, than the unbiasedness of forward rates as predictors of future spot exchange rates. The two hypotheses are closely related, so that test rejections of the latter tend to cast doubt on the former, but are not identical--so unbiasedness rejections are not conclusive for UIP. Next, some representative evidence is presented that pertains to alternative versions of the unbiasedness test. Although s[sub t] = [alpha] + ([beta]f[sub t- 1] + [epsilon, sub t] and s[sub t] - s[sub t-1] =[alpha] + [beta](f[sub t-1] ? s[sub t-1]) + [epsilon, sub t] are equivalent under the null hypothesis of [beta]= 1.0, they represent different classes of alternative hypotheses. Empirically, they give rise to extremely different outcomes, estimates of [beta] being very close to 1. 0 in the former equation but in the vicinity of -3.0 in the latter. In a generalized specification that includes both as special cases, the results strongly favor the second specification--thereby rejecting unbiasedness. Finally, three possible explanations for the [beta] = -3 result are considered and related to the UIP condition. Of these three, the latter two--one involving systematically irrational expectations and the other an additional relationship reflecting monetary policy behavior--are consistent with UIP. The policy-response hypothesis, that monetary authorities manage interest-rate differentials so as to resist rapid changes in exchange rates and in these differentials, is attractive conceptually and is capable of explaining not only the [beta] = -3 finding, but also several other notable features of the data.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper investigates the performance, in several small-scale models of the Japanese economy, of an operational monetary policy rule related to ones previously considered for the United States. The rule dictates settings of the monetary base that are designed to produce values of nominal GNP close to targets that grow smoothly at a noninflationary rate. Simulations with quarterly data for the period 1972-92 yield predominantly favorable results. Experiments with an interest rate instrument are also conducted but the simulated performance is less desirable. One section discusses issues concerning monetary base control in Japan.'] ["This paper suggests that the relevant question concerning unit root' in the U.S. real GNP time series pertains to the relative importance of difference-stationary and trend-stationary components. Various analytical approaches indicate than an accurate answer is not obtainable with existing data. The paper next considers whether trending series should be differences prior to use in regression analysis and suggests it may not matter greatly if autocorrelated residuals are avoided. Finally, the paper argues that the absence of cointegration among variables does not imply the absence of any practically useful long-run relationship.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' In a long-standing controversy over monetary experiences in colonial America, the main substantive issue concerns large and rapid increases in stocks of paper currency that were followed by negligible changes in price levels. The "backing theory" or anticlassical interpretation is that prices failed to respond to major increases in total money supplies. The "quantity theory" or classical hypothesis, by contrast, is that specie was exported in amounts that left total money stocks approximately unchanged. This paper develops and applies a strategy for resolving this fundamental disagreement despite the absence of data on stocks and flows of specie. Copyright 1992 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper continues an ongoing investigation of the properties of a specific, quantitative, and operational rule for the conduct of monetary policy, a rule that specifies settings of the monetary base that are designed to keep nominal GNP growing smoothly at a noninflationary rate. Whereas previous studies have examined the rule's performance in the context of United States experience since World War II, the present paper is concerned with the period 1923-1941. Counterfactual historical simulations are conducted with the rule and a small model of nominal GNP determination, estimated with U.S. quarterly data for 1922-1941. Residuals from the estimated relationships serve as estimates of the behavioral shocks that occurred and accordingly are fed into the simulation process quarter by quarter. The simulation results indicate that nominal GNP would have been kept reasonably close to a steady 3 percent growth path over 1923-1941 if the rule had been in effect, in which case it is highly unlikely that real output and employment could have collapsed as they did during the 1930s.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' The essential ingredients of new classical macroeconomics are (1) adoptions of the equilibrium approach to model construction, (2) acceptance of the natural rate hypothesis, (3) a belief in the superiority of policy based on rules, and (4) a strong skepticism regarding the empirical relevance for macroeconomic issues of rational bubbles phenomena. Recent "Keynesian" analyses stressing the interaction of monopolistic competition with price-change menu costs are not incompatible with the new classical approach, but have not been highly successful. A new classical policy strategy that recognizes current weaknesses in macroeconomic understanding is described and rationalized, and an analytical basis for new classical skepticism regarding bubbles, sunspots, etc. is outlined. Copyright 1989 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The paper summarizes current mainstream views concerning the theory of money demand. A utility maximizing household chooses to hold money because it facilitates transactions, allowing it to economize on shopping time. Two types of implied money demand functions are derived: a \xe2\x80\x9cproper\xe2\x80\x9d demand function with arguments exogenous to the household and a conventional \xe2\x80\x9cportfolio balance\xe2\x80\x9d relationship. The historical evolution of ideas pertaining to money demand is reviewed. A final section considers ongoing controversies concerning the role of uncertainty, the use of overlapping generations and cash-in-advance models, and the interpretation of empirical results suggestive of extremely slow portfolio adjustment.'] [" For issues regarding business cycles, the Phillips curve or aggregate supply portion of a macroeconomic model's specification is crucial. Unfortunately, the relevant dynamic behavior is poorly understood: flexible-price models appear inconsistent with the data, while existing sticky-price models are unlikely to be policy invariant. Nevertheless, current knowledge is adequate to design a rule for monetary policy that would, if maintained, result in near-zero inflation and output fluctuations that are small by historical standards. An operational rule of this type is described and some indication of its effectiveness is reported. Copyright 1988 by Ohio State University Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper provides an outline of the historical development of Keynesian macroeconomics. It first argues that the business-cycle model of J.M. Keynes's General Theory featured analytical ingredients that were present in earlier writings and attained its theoretical precision only in contributions made later. Remaining sections of the paper focus on the key characteristic of Keynesian theory, namely, a postulated stickiness of nominal prices that enables aggregate demand to play a greater role in output determination than it does in flexible-price classical analysis. Three approaches that have been historically important are ones relying upon (i) equilibria conditional on given prices, (i ) algebraic Phillips-type price adjustment relations, and (iii) equilibrium analysis 'with incomplete information. The paper reviews difficulties with each of these and concludes with a discussion of relevant issues of today.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['A policy rule can be activist; the distinction between rules and discretion depends on the stage at which optimization calculations enter the policy process. Here a specific monetary rule is proposed, one that sets the monetary base each quarter in a manner designed to keep nominal aggregate demand growing smoothly at a noninflationary rate. Simulations with a simple estimated model suggest that the proposed rule would have performed well over the period 1954-85, despite financial innovations and regulatory change.'] [' After presenting some facts about the growth of government in Western industrialized countries, possible causes of this development are analyzed from a public-choice perspective. Next, some empirically tested theories which seek to explain this growth are discussed. Finally, possible consequences for efficiency and individual liberty are examined. It is shown that both the number and size of interest groups (age of democracy) as stated by Mancur Olson (1982) and the increasing share of government expenditure in GDP seem to exert a negative influence on the growth rate of GDP. Copyright 1986 by Ohio State University Press.'] ['In a recent paper, Canzoneri, Henderson, and Rogoff have shown that it is possible for the monetary authority to peg the nominal interest rate without creating price level indeterminacy in a simplified version of the 1975 Sargent-Wallace model. The present paper begins by reviewing that result, which involves a limiting case of a money supply rule that depicts the authority as responding to current values of the interest rate. Then it shows that there exists an alternative rule that will peg the nominal rate without creating indeterminacy, but that this rule induces a different pattern of price level fluctuations. Next the paper considers whether indeterminacy will prevail if the authority tries to effect a peg in a third way: by simply standing ready to buy and sell securities at the desired rate. Finally, the implication of the foregoing results are drawn for arguments concerning the real bills doctrine and some critical comments are directed at the recent attempted rehabilitation of that doctrine by Sargent and Wallace.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper reviews a specific group of recent publications by Black, Fama, Hall, and Greenfield and Yeager that (i) encourage the relaxation of government controls on the banking industry, (ii) emphasize the possibility of an economy in which most transactions are carried out through an accounting system rather than any tangible medium of exchange, and (iii)suggest that improved monetary performance could be induced by separating the unit of account from the medium of exchange.The main substantive conclusions are as follows. First, a system with an unregulated banking sector and a government-issued currency would be viable and might reduce inefficiencies resulting from reserve requirements, a point that has been recognized by neoclassical monetary economists.The second main class of systems discussed in the reviewed papers -- one with a composite-commodity medium of account and no convertibility provision -- is quite different. If there were literally no medium of exchange, the non-coercive government designation of the unit of account would encounter no inconsistency but would be extremely fragile. More realistically, with some circulating private currency the latter would tend to become the medium of account as well as the medium of exchange and would tend to be issued in excess, thereby separating the unit of account from the officially-designated bundle of commodities. Several conclusions regarding analytical approach are also developed.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The purpose of this paper is to review and evaluate the most important existing criticisms of policy strategies that feature adherence to money stock targets. Four main categories of criticism (and counterargumerits) are analyzed. The first of these involves the claim that accurate money stock control is infeasible while the second contends that such control can only be obtained along with extreme volatility of interest rates. The third emphasizes difficulties resulting from technical change and deregulation, and the fourth concerns strategic issues of rules vs. discretion, activist vs. non-activist policy, and the logical function of intermediate targets.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Recent experience does not include a "monetarist experiment," as some have argued, but may slightly reinforce preexisting reasons for doubting that the best way of formulating monetarist policy prescriptions is in the form of a constant growth rule for the money stock.A more desirable rule would pertain to the monetary base, which is much more directly under Fed control. While a constant base growth rule might provide good macroeconomic performance, better results should be obtainable from a rule that at regular intervals adjusts the base growth rate upward or downward depending on whether nominal GNP is below or above a target path that specifies constant, non-inflationary growth for that variable. This type of rule is activist, to an extent, but is non-discretionary.The implied absence of policy-making flexibility is desirable for reasons explained in the literature on dynamic inconsistency.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["The purpose of this paper is to describe and evaluate the most important existing ideas concerning credibility of monetary policy, with special emphasis given to matters pertaining to the U.S. economy and the practices and procedures of the Fed. The main discussion begins with Fellner's hypothesis that the costs of a disinflationary episode will be smaller when the public believes that the disinflation will in fact be carried out. This hypothesis has been challenged recently by several writers; an evaluation of their evidence is attempted and some new results presented. Next, the discussion turns to positive analyses of the monetary policy-making process. Models developed by Barro and Gordon and others are examined, the object being to develop an understanding of why certain features of monetary policy tend to prevail. The main implications of this analysis are then used to consider various strategies for obtaining a type of policy behavior that might produce better macroeconomic results--less inflation with no more unemployment--than the U.S. has experienced in the recent past. Particular proposals touched upon include the adoption of a commodity-money standard, a balanced-budget amendment, a legislated monetary rule, a nominal GNP target, and the absorption of the Fed into the Treasury.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['The model developed in Robert Lucas\'s influential "Expectations and the Neutrality of Money" has not been widely used for extensions or modifications of the original analysis, in part because of its difficulty of manipulation.The present paper describes a linearized version that--unlike other models prominent in the rational expectations literature--retains the original\'s mainfeatures yet is comparatively easy to manipulate.Two examples of modifications facilitated by this linearization are included. These involve an autoregressive money growth specification and the assumption of lump-sum (rather than proportional)monetary transfers.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['A number of recent studies have attempted to test propositions concerning "long runt" economic relationships by means of frequency-domain time series techniques that concentrate attention on low frequency co-movements of variables.The present paper emphasizes that many of these propositions involve expectational relationships that are not inherently related to specific frequencies or periodicities. Thus the association of low-frequency time series test statistics with long-run economic propositions is not generally warranted. That such an association can be misleading is demonstrated by analysis of examples taken from notable papers by Geweke, Lucas, and Summers.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper considers the possible theoretical validity of the following "monetarist hypothesis": that a constant, positive government budget deficit can be maintained permanently and without inflation if it is financed by the issue of bonds rather than money. The question is studied in a discrete-time, perfect-foresight version of the competitive equilibrium model of Sidrauski (1967), modified by the inclusion of government bonds as a third asset. It is shown that the monetarist hypothesis is invalid if the deficit is defined exclusive of interest payments, but is valid under the conventional definition. It is also shown that the stock of bonds can grow indefinitely at a rate in excess of the rate of output growth, provided that the difference is less than the rate of time preference. In addition to the main analysis, the paper includes comments on alternative deficit concepts, a brief consideration of data pertaining to the announced budget plans of the Reagan administration, and a new look at a much- studied issue: whether the operation of a Friedman-type constant money growth rule (with non-activist fiscal rules) would be dynamically feasible.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Many macroeconomic models involving rational expect at ions give rise to an infinity of solution paths, even when the models are linear in all variables. Some writers have suggested that this non-uniqueness constitutes a serious weakness for the rational expectations hypothesis. One purpose of the present paper is to argue that the non-uniqueness in question is not properly attributable to the rationality hypothesis but, instead, is a general feature of dynamic models involving expectations. It is also argued that there typically exists, in a very wide class of linear rational expectations models, a single solution that excludes "bubble" or "bootstrap" effects -- ones that occur only because they are arbitrarily expected to occur. A systematic procedure for obtaining solutions free from such effects is introduced and discussed. In addition, this procedure is used to interpret and reconsider several prominent examples with solution multiplicities, including ones developed by Fischer Black and John B. Taylor.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The main arguments of this paper can be summarized as follows. (1) The overlapping-generations (OG) structure provides a useful framework for the analysis of macroeconomic issues involving intertemporal allocation. (2) As a "model of money," the basic OG setup -- which excludes cash-in-advance or money-in-the-utility-function (MIUF) features -- is inadequate and misleading because it neglects the medium-of-exchange property that is the distinguishing characteristic of money. (3) That this neglect obtains is verified by noting that, in contrast with an axiomatic "traditional presumption," the same aggregate leisure/consumption bundles are available in equilibria in which "money" is valued and valueless. (4) That the model may be misleading is demonstrated by examples in which three of its most striking properties --tenuousness of monetary equilibrium, optimality of zero money growth, and price level invariance to open-market exchanges -- disappear in the presence of modifications designed to reflect the medium-of-exchange property. (5) There is no compelling reason why cash-in-advance, MIUF, or other appendages should not be used in conjunction with the OG framework.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['A Keynesian idea of considerable historical importance is that, in the presence of a liquidity trap, a competitive economy may lack--despite price flexibility--automatic market mechanisms that tend to eliminate excess supplies of labor. The standard classical counterargument, which relies upon the Pigou effect, has typically been conducted in a comparative-static framework. But, as James Tobin has recently emphasized, the more relevant issue concerns the dynamic response (in "real time") of an economy that has been shocked away from full employment. The present paper develops a dynamic analysis, in a rather standard model, under the assumption that expectations are formed rationally. The analysis permits examination of Tobin\'s suggestion that, because of expectational effects, such an economy could be unstable. Also considered is Martin J. Bailey\'s conjecture that, in the absence of a stock Pigou effect, Keynesian problems could be eliminated by expectational influences on disposable income.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['An abstract for this article is not available.'] ['This paper reconsiders a result obtained by Sargent and Wallace, namely, that price level indeterminacy obtains in their well-known model if the monetary authorities adopt a policy feedback rule for the interest rate rather than the money stock. Since the Federal Reserve seems often to have used the federal funds rate as its operating instrument, with the money stack determined by the quantity demanded, this result suggests that the Sargent-Wallace model -- as well as others incorporating rational expectations -- is inconsistent with U.S. experience. It is here shown, however, that the indeterminacy result vanishes if the interest rate rule is chosen so as to have some desired effect on the expected quantity of money demanded. This revised conclusion holds even if considerable weight is given, in the choice of a rule, to the aim of smoothing interest rate fluctuations.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Given the influence of Milton Friedman ,it is hard to keep from identifying "monetarisms" with the advocacy of a policy rule that would require the money stock to grow at a constant rate and prohibit cyclical adjustments in government spending or in tax schedules. This identification is somewhat inaccurate since Karl Brunner and Allan Meltzer, the other two leading proponents of monetarism, have not always been advocates of a constant money growth rate. It may nevertheless he useful to relate one\'s thoughts about monetarism to Friedman\'s rule, as will be done in this paper. But the question that immediately arises is, what more fundamental beliefs about the economy give rise to the idea that such a rule would be socially desirable. At this more basic level there may he more agreement among monetarists than about the rule itself. in any event, it appears that there are two basic monetarist propositions that are of crucial importance, as follows. (i) Cyclical and secular movements in nominal income are primarily attributable to movements in the stock of money relative to capacity output. (ii) There is no permanent tradeoff between unemployment and inflation or any other characteristic of the path of the price level -- that is, the natural rate of unemployment hypothesis is valid.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']