 ['We explore the performance of multi-round, price-guided combinatorial auctions for a previously untested class of value profiles in which synergies arise from shared fixed costs. We find that, in many cases, a simulator that bids straightforwardly does well in predicting auction performance, but exceptions arise because human bidders sometimes rely on cues besides prices to guide their package selection and because they sometimes bid aggressively on items for which they have no value in order to increase payments by bidders seeking complementary packages. In our experiments, this latter behavior not only raises prices, but can also improve efficiency by mitigating the threshold problem. Comparisons between a combinatorial clock auction (CCA) and a simultaneous ascending auction (SAA) are reported.'] ['Randomization is commonplace in everyday resource allocation. We generalize the theory of randomized assignment to accommodate multi-unit allocations and various real-world constraints, such as group-specific quotas ("controlled choice") in school choice and house allocation, and scheduling and curriculum constraints in course allocation. We develop new mechanisms that are ex ante efficient and fair in these environments, and that incorporate certain non-additive substitutable preferences. We also develop a "utility guarantee" technique that limits ex post unfairness in random allocations, supplementing the ex ante fairness promoted by randomization. This can be applied to multi-unit assignment problems and certain two-sided matching problems. (JEL C78, D82)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['A mechanism can be simplified by restricting its message space. If the restricted message spaces satisfy a certain "outcome closure property," then the simplification is "tight": for every [epsilon][greater-or-equal, slanted]0, any [epsilon]-Nash equilibrium of the simplified mechanism is also an [epsilon]-Nash equilibrium of the unrestricted mechanism. Prominent auction and matching mechanisms are tight simplifications of mechanisms studied in economic theory and often incorporate price-adjustment features that facilitate simplification. The generalized second-price auction used for sponsored-search advertising is a tight simplification of a series of second-price auctions that eliminates the lowest revenue equilibrium outcomes and leaves intact only higher revenue equilibria.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We use theory and experiment to explore the performance of multi-round, price-guided, combinatorial auctions. We define efficiency-relevant and core-relevant packages and show that if bidders bid aggressively on these and losing bidders bid to their limits, then the auction leads to efficient or core allocations. We study the theoretically relevant behaviors and hypothesize that subjects will make only a few significant bids, and that certain simulations with auto-bidders will predict variations in performance across different environments. Testing the combinatorial clock auction (CCA) design, we find experimental support for these two hypotheses. We also compare the CCA to a simultaneous ascending auction. (JEL D44)'] ['This paper identifies two notions of substitutes for auction and equilibrium analysis. Weak substitutes, the usual price-theory notion, guarantees monotonicity of Tatonnement processes and convergence of clock auctions to a pseudo-equilibrium, but only strong substitutes, which treats each unit traded as a distinct good with its own price, guarantees that every pseudo-equilibrium is a Walrasian equilibrium, that the Vickrey outcome is in the core, and that the "law of aggregate demand" is satisfied. When goods are divisible, weak substitutes along with concavity guarantees all of the above properties, except for the law of aggregate demand.'] ['"Assignment messages" are maximally general messages to describe substitutable preferences by means of a linear program. With "integer assignment messages," there exist integer-valued Walrasian allocations, extending a result of Lloyd S. Shapley and Martin Shubik (1971). Any pure Nash equilibrium profile of the Walrasian mechanism with participants limited to assignment messages is also a Nash equilibrium of the unrestricted Walrasian mechanism. Assignment exchanges are generalizations of single-product double auctions and are related to ascending multi-product clock auctions and the Vickrey mechanism. Assignment messages also have additional applications in mechanism design. (JEL D44, D82)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Imagine that you are considering an investment in a new public offering of a firm's shares. The firm's officers make a presentation that includes an audited financial statement, an earnings forecast reviewed by its prestigious investment bankers, and an impressive demonstration of its new technology. Or suppose that you are buying a new furnace to replace an old one that is not working well. The salesman displays a chart showing that the projected total life-cycle cost of one particular model, including capital costs and fuel usage over the projected lifetime of the furnace, is lower than that of some competing models you have considered. This paper reviews the theoretical arguments about how sellers disclose information in an attempt to encourage buyers, and the potential role for regulation in encouraging efficient disclosure of information. How well does a system of private reporting work? When should we expect all the relevant information to be reported? If testing and reporting by the seller are costly, will too little testing and reporting be done? Or too much? When some information is withheld, what sort of information is withheld? How do rational buyers respond to such withholding? How are prices and welfare affected? What role is there for laws and regulations to improve the functioning of markets? We address these questions by studying the theory of persuasion games -- games in which one or more sellers provide verifiable information to buyers to influence the actions they take."] ["When a job-seeker and an employer meet, find a prospective joint surplus, and bargain over the wage, conditions in the outside labor market, including especially unemployment, may have limited influence. The job-seeker's only credible threat during bargaining is to hold out for a better deal. The employer's threat is to delay bargaining. Consequently, the outcome of the bargain depends on the relative costs of delays to the parties, rather than on the payoffs that result from exiting negotiations. Modeling bargaining in this way makes wages less responsive to unemployment. A stochastic model of the labor market with credible bargaining and reasonable parameter values yields larger employment fluctuations than does the standard Mortensen-Pissarides model. (JEL J22, J23, J31, J64)"] [' We report recent advances concerning the package allocation problem, in which traders seek to buy or sell combinations of goods. The problems are most difficult when some goods are not substitutes. In that case, competitive equilibrium typically fail to exist but the core is non-empty and comprises the competitive solutions. Also in that case, the Vickrey auction fails to select core allocations and yield revenues that are less than competitive. The Ausubel-Milgrom auction generally selects core allocations and, when goods are substitutes, prescribes the Vickrey allocation. We also evaluate the problems and promise of mechanisms for the package exchange problem. Copyright The Econometric Society 2007.'] ['We develop a model of matching with contracts which incorporates, as special cases, the college admissions problem, the Kelso-Crawford labor market matching model, and ascending package auctions. We introduce a new "law of aggregate demand" for the case of discrete heterogeneous workers and show that, when workers are substitutes, this law is satisfied by profit-maximizing firms. When workers are substitutes and the law is satisfied, truthful reporting is a dominant strategy for workers in a worker-offering auction/matching algorithm. We also parameterize a large class of preferences satisfying the two conditions.'] ["[eng] Package Bidding Vickrey vs. Ascending Auctions. . The Vickrey and ascending package auctions are found to have identical equilibrium performance in the case where goods are substitutes. In the remaining cases, the Vickrey auction retains its incentive advantages ai the cost of setting prices that are so low that the outcome is not in the core of the corresponding exchange economy. The Vickrey auction also introduces blases that distort investments in new technology. By contrast, the ascending package auction has its equi-librium outcomes in the core, provides neutral investirent incentives, and is easier for bidders to understand and manage. [fre] Encheres par lots : mecanisme de Vickrey ou ench\xc3\xa8res ascendantes. . On d\xc3\xa9montre que les ench\xc3\xa8res \xc3\xa0 la Vickrey et les ench\xc3\xa8res ascendantes par lots ont des propri\xc3\xa9t\xc3\xa9s similaires dans le cas o\xc3\xb9 les biens concern\xc3\xa9s sont des substituts. Dans les autres cas, les m\xc3\xa9canismes de Vickrey conservent leurs pro\xc2\xadpri\xc3\xa9t\xc3\xa9s incitatives, mais conduisent \xc3\xa0 des prix si bas que le r\xc3\xa9sultat n'appartient pas au noyau de l'\xc3\xa9conomie d'\xc3\xa9change concern\xc3\xa9e. Les ench\xc3\xa8res \xc3\xa0 la Vickrey induisent par ailleurs des biais qui affectent les investissements dans les nouvelles technologies. Par contraste, les ench\xc3\xa8res ascendantes par lots produisent un \xc3\xa9quilibre qui appartient au noyau de l'\xc3\xa9conomie, sont neutres en mati\xc3\xa8re d'incitations \xc3\xa0 l'investissement et sont plus simples \xc3\xa0 comprendre et \xc3\xa0 g\xc3\xa9rer pour les participants au m\xc3\xa9canisme."] ['A family of ascending package auction models is introduced in which bidders may determine their own packages on which to bid. In the proxy auction (revelation game) versions, the outcome is a point in the core of the exchange economy for the reported preferences. When payoffs are linear in money and goods are substitutes, sincere reporting constitutes a Nash equilibrium and the outcome coincides with the Vickrey auction outcome. Even when goods are not substitutes, ascending proxy auction equilibria lie in the core with respect to the true preferences. Compared to the Vickrey auction, the proxy auctions generate higher equilibrium revenues, are less vulnerable to shill bidding and collusion, can handle budget constraints much more robustly, and may provide better ex ante investment incentives.'] [' The standard envelope theorems apply to choice sets with convex and topological structure, providing sufficient conditions for the value function to be differentiable in a parameter and characterizing its derivative. This paper studies optimization with arbitrary choice sets and shows that the traditional envelope formula holds at any differentiability point of the value function. We also provide conditions for the value function to be, variously, absolutely continuous, left- and right-differentiable, or fully differentiable. These results are applied to mechanism design, convex programming, continuous optimization problems, saddle-point problems, problems with parameterized constraints, and optimal stopping problems. Copyright The Econometric Society 2002.'] ['December 8, 1997 (Revised April 21, 1999)  We review the uses of economic theory in the initial design and later improvement of the "simultaneous ascending auction," which was developed initially for the sale of radio spectrum licenses in the US, with efficiency of the final allocation as the statutory goal. We analyze some capabilities and inherent limitations of the auction, the roles of various detailed rules, the possibilities for introducing combinatorial bidding, and some considerations in adapting the auction for sales with a revenue goal.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The LeChatelier principle, in the form introduced into economics by Paul A. Samuelson, asserts that, at a point of long-run equilibrium, the derivative of long-run compensated demand with respect to own price is larger in magnitude than the derivative of short-run compensated demand. The authors introduce an extended LeChatelier principle that applies also to large price changes and to uncompensated demand as well as to a wide range of concave and nonconcave maximization problems outside the scope of demand theory. This extension also clarifies the intuitive basis of the principle. Copyright 1996 by American Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The authors interpret historical evidence in light of a repeated-game model to conclude that merchant guilds emerged during the late medieval period to allow rulers of trade centers to commit to the security of alien merchants. The merchant guild developed the theoretically required attributes, secured merchants' property rights, and evolved in response to crises to extend the range of its effectiveness, contributing to the expansion of trade during the late medieval period. The authors elaborate on the relations between their theory and the monopoly theory of merchant guilds and contrast it with repeated-game theories that provide no role for formal organization. Copyright 1994 by University of Chicago Press."] ['The performance of the Japanese economy in the last forty five years, during which it has gone from post war destitution and near collapse to one of the richest and most productive in the world is unmatched in human history. The purposes of this essay are to interpret both the characteristic features of Japanese economic organization in terms of the concept of complementarity, and some recent developments in Japanese economy, and to speculate on its future.'] [' The authors derive a necessary and sufficient condition for the solution set of an optimization problem to be monotonic in the parameters of the problem. In addition, they develop practical methods for checking the condition and demonstrate its applications to the classical theories of the competitive firm, the monopolist, the Bertrand oligopolist, consumer and growth theory, game theory, and general equilibrium analysis. Copyright 1994 by The Econometric Society.'] [" The authors develop an ordinal approach to comparing the equilibria of economic models. Its main advantages over the traditional approach based on signing derivatives are that it utilizes only a subset of the assumptions, resulting in a simpler theory that facilitates focusing attention on the economics rather than the mathematics; it applies to discrete changes, even when there are multiple equilibria and when some equilibria do not vary smoothly with the parameters; and it incorporates a formal theory of the robustness of conclusions to assumptions, which helps modelers distinguish which assumptions are 'critical' to their comparative-statics conclusions. Copyright 1994 by American Economic Association."] [' Consider a family of maximization models in which the optimum trades off beneficial and costly effects. Then comparative statics derived under many kinds of simplifying assumptions about the benefits technology are also true for general (convex and nonconvex) technologies. For example, any comparative statics conclusion about investment by a risk-averse decisionmaker under uncertainty that holds when expected returns are described by a general linear function also holds for an arbitrary nonlinear expected return function. Copyright 1994 by University of Chicago Press.'] [' The authors explore the twin hypotheses (1) that high-performance incentives, worker ownership of assets, and worker freedom from direct controls are complementary instruments for motivating workers, and (2) that such instruments can be expected to covary positively in cross-sectional data. They also relate their conclusions to empirical evidence, particularly that on the organization, compensation, and management of sales forces. Copyright 1994 by American Economic Association.'] [' We augment efficiency-based theories of ownership by including influence costs. Our principal conclusion is that the prospect of organizational decline and layoffs creates additional influence costs in multiunit organizations that would be absent if there was no prospect of layoffs and would be lessened or eliminated in focused organizations. This helps explain the tendency of firms to divest poorly performing units, as well as the pattern of sales of such units to firms already in businesses related to that of the divested unit. Copyright 1992 by MIT Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Our purpose in this paper is to investigate the economics of managerial organizations by focusing on the decision problem of management. Ours is a "team theory" analysis, that is, it ignores the problem of conflicting objectives among managers and focuses instead on the problem of coordinating the decisions of several imperfectly informed actors. However, unlike classical team theory, we concentrate on the choice by managers of what to know, as well as what to do, and we allow the possibility that bounded rationality limits the managers\' ability to understand subtle messages.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' In a repeated partnership game with imperfect monitoring, the authors distinguish among the effects of (1) reducing the interest rate, (2) shortening the period over which actions are held fixed, and (3) shortening the lag with which accumulated information is reported. All three changes are equivalent in games with perfect monitoring. With imperfect monitoring, reducing the interest rate always increases the possibilities for cooperation, but the other two changes always have the reverse effect when the interest rate is small. Copyright 1991 by The Econometric Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The authors study a rich class of noncooperative games that includes models of oligopoly competition, macroeconomic coordination failures, arms races, bank runs, technology adoption and diffusion, R&amp;D; competition, pretrial bargaining, coordination in teams, and many others. For all these games, the sets of pure strategy Nash equilibria, correlated equilibria, and rationalizable strategies have identical bounds. Also, for a class of models of dynamic adaptive choice behavior that encompasses both best-response dynamics and Bayesian learning, the players' choices lie eventually within the same bounds. These bounds are shown to vary monotonically with certain exogenous parameters. Copyright 1990 by The Econometric Society."] [" Manufacturing is undergoing a revolution. The mass production model is being replaced by a vision of a flexible multiproduct firm that emphasizes quality and speedy response to market conditions while utilizing technologically advanced equipment and new forms of organization. The authors' optimizing model of the firm generates many of the observed patterns that mark modern manufacturing. Central to the authors' results is a method of handling optimization and comparative statics problems that requires neither differentiability nor convexity. Copyright 1990 by American Economic Association."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" A good reputation can be an effective bond for honest behavior in a community of traders if members of the community know how others have behaved in the past - even if any particular pair of traders meets only infrequently. In a large community, it would be impossibly costly for traders to be perfectly informed about each other's behavior, but there exist institutions that can restore the effectiveness of a reputation system using much less extensive information. The system of judges used to enforce commercial law before the rise of the state was such an institution, and it successfully encouraged merchants (1) to behave honestly, (2) to impose sanctions on violators, (3) to become adequately informed about how others had behaved, (4) to provide evidence against violators of the code, and (5) to pay any judgments assessed against them, even though each of these behaviors might be personally costly. Copyright 1990 Blackwell Publishers Ltd.."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Efficient employment contracts usually fail to compensate workers for the effects of posthir ing events and decisions when changing jobs is costly. Then, when the re are executives and managers with authority to make discretionary decisions, affected employees will be led to waste valuable time tryi ng to influence their decisions. Efficient organization design coun-t ers this tendency by limiting the discretion of decision makers, espe cially for those decisions that have large distributional consequence s but that are otherwise of little consequence to the organization. Copyright 1988 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['The authors explore the current state of the theory of the firm, with attention to its historical origins. Answers to the crucial theoretical question of why an organization c ontrolled by a central authority cannot always duplicate the performa nce of a decentralized organization are presented. Finally, the autho rs describe some important current directions in the theory of the fi rm and point out promising avenues for continuing research.'] [' A major organizational design decision for manufacturing firms is t he extent to which production should be to stock versus to order: inventories and communication with customers are substitutes. The authors show that profits are convex in the share of the market supplied from inventory. Thus, firms will tend to specialize in one mode of organization. The authors examine how this choice depends on market size, the level and variability of demand, the costs of communication, price levels, production costs, and the costs of expanding product lines. The results are consistent with observed patterns in several industries. Copyright 1988 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The Invisibility Hypothesis holds that the job skills of disadvantaged workers are not easily discovered by potential new employers, but that promotion enhances visibility and alleviates this problem. Then, at a competitive labor market equilibrium, firms profit by hiding talented disadvantaged workers in low level jobs. Consequently, those workers are paid less on average and promoted less often than others with the same education and ability. As a result of the inefficient and discriminatory wage and promotion policies, disadvantaged workers experience lower returns to investments in human capital than other workers.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' The authors develop two themes in the theory of incentive schemes. First, one need not always use all of the information available in an optimal incentive contract. Accounting information, which aggregates performance over time, is sufficient for optimal compensation schemes in certain classes of environments. Second, optimal rules in a rich environment must work well in a range of circumstances and cannot, therefore, be complicated functions of the observed outcome. The authors illustrate these ideas in a particular model where the agent has a rich space of controls, showing that the unique optimal compensation scheme is a linear function of profits. Copyright 1987 by The Econometric Society.'] [" We investigate the conventional wisdom that competition among interested parties attempting to influence a decisionmaker by providing verifiable information elicits all relevant information. We find that, if the decisionmaker is strategically sophisticated and well informed about the relevant variables and about the preferences of the interested party or parties, competition may be unnecessary to achieve this result. If the decisionmaker is unsophisticated or not well informed, competition is not generally sufficient. If the interested parties' interests are sufficiently opposed, however, or if the decisionmaker is seeking to advance the parties' welfare, then competition can reduce or even eliminate the decisionmaker's need for prior knowledge about the relevant variables and for strategic sophistication. In other settings only the combination of competition among information providers and a sophisticated skepticism is sufficient to allow effective decisionmaking."] ['We present a signalling model, based on ideas of Phillip Nelson, in which both the introductory price and the level of directly "uninformative" advertising or other dissipative marketing expenditures are choice variables and may be used as signals for the initially unobservable quality of a newly introduced experience good. Repeat purchases play a crucial role in our model.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This is an article about modeling methods in information economics. A notion of "favorableness" of news is introduced, characterized, and applied to four simple models. In the equilibria of these models, (1) the arrival of good news about a firm\'s prospects always causes its share price to rise, (2) more favorable evidence about an agent\'s effort leads the principal to pay a larger bonus, (3) buyers expect that any product information withheld by a salesman is unfavorable to his product, and (4) bidders figure that low bids by their competitors signal a low value for the object being sold.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']