 ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Abstract Throughout the OECD, the period since the 1970s saw a secular decline in manufacturing's share of GDP and a secular rise in the share of services. Despite this being a central feature of growth, the economic forces behind deindustrialisation and the reasons why its pace varied so markedly across OECD countries are not well understood. Adopting an econometric approach founded in neoclassical production theory, we provide an empirical analysis of the role of changes in relative prices, technology and factor endowments in driving changes in production structure. The speed of adjustment to changes in these determinants of production structure varies across OECD countries and is correlated with levels of employment protection. Copyright 2008 The Authors. Journal compilation 2008 Blackwell Publishing Ltd."] ['In normative public economics it is crucial to know how fast the marginal utility of income declines as income increases. One needs this parameter for cost-bene[fi]t analysis, for optimal taxation and for the (Atkinson) measurement of inequality. We estimate this parameter using four large cross-sectional surveys of subjective happiness and two panel surveys. Altogether, the data cover over 50 countries and time periods between 1972 and 2005. In each of the six very different surveys, using a number of assumptions, we are able to estimate the elasticity of marginal utility with respect to income. We obtain very similar results from each survey. The highest (absolute) value is 1.34 and the lowest is 1.19, with a combined estimate of 1.26. The results are also very similar for subgroups in the population. Thus, on the basis of our estimates, the marginal utility of income declines somewhat faster than in proportion to the rise in income.'] ['America Works is a splendid book and Richard Freeman is to be congratulated on producing a work that sets out what is right and what is wrong with the U.S. labor market while being a joy to read. While I am generally sympathetic to both the analysis and the conclusions, there are a number of points of disagreement that I highlight in this review. In particular, I would add to his policy recommendations by taking a gamble and enacting a law that entitled all employees in the United States to four weeks paid holiday per year in addition to public holidays. This may transform summertime in the United States.'] [' Market work per person of working age differs widely across the OECD countries and there have been some significant changes in the last forty years. How to explain this pattern? Taxes are part of the story but much remains to be explained. The story favoured by Alesina "et\xef\xbf\xbdal." (2005)  is that the nexus of strong unions, generous welfare and social democracy implies both high taxes and pressure in favour of work-sharing in response to adverse shocks. This is not borne out in Scandinavian countries. Scandinavian trade unions have understood that wage restraint rather than work-sharing is the way to sustain employment. Copyright The Author(s). Journal compilation Royal Economic Society 2007.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper presents an empirical analysis of unemployment patterns in the OECD countries from the 1960s to the 1990s. Our results indicate the following. First, broad movements in unemployment across the OECD can be explained by shifts in labour market institutions. Second, interactions between average values of these institutions and shocks make no significant additional contribution to our understanding of OECD unemployment changes. Copyright 2005 Royal Economic Society.'] [' Relative poverty in the UK has risen massively since 1979 mainly because of increasing worklessness, rising earnings dispersion and benefits indexed to prices, not wages. The economic force underlying this is the significant shift in demand against the unskilled. This has substantially weakened the low-skill labour market which has increased both pay dispersion and worklessness, particularly among low-skilled men. Practical policies discussed include improving education and overall well-being for children in the lower part of the ability range, raising wage floors, New Deal policies, tax credits and benefits for the workless. Copyright 2004 Royal Economic Society.'] [' Using the accurate and extensive data available in the UK New Earnings Survey, this paper investigates the extent to which nominal wages are downwardly rigid and whether such rigidity interferes with necessary real wage adjustments when inflation is low. Despite the substantial numbers of individuals whose nominal wages fall from one year to the next, we find that there is evidence of some rigidity at zero nominal wage change. While the effect is statistically significant, the macroeconomic impact of the distortion is very modest. Copyright 2003 Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Following the fall in overall net public investment, the relative pay of most public sector workers in the United Kingdom declined sharply after the mid-1970s. For example, the relative pay of male teachers fell by over 10 percentage points from the late 1970s to the late 1980s. So has this generated a fall in quality? Using age 10/11 test score percentile positions as an indicator, we find that men entering non-manual public sector occupations in the early 1990s had a significantly lower test score position than those entering in the late 1970s. No such falls were exhibited by women. Copyright Royal Economic Society 2002'] ['This paper is concerned with the relationship between wages and unemployment. Using UK regions and individuals as the basis for our analysis, the following questions are investigated. First, is the wage equation a relationship between unemployment and wages or wage changes? Second, can we identify the relationship completely by looking at regional wages and regional unemployment or do regional wages depend on aggregate unemployment as well? Third, are wages influenced only by the current state of the labour market or do contracts lead to wages depending on labour market conditions in the last boom or upon entry into the job? Finally is the wage-unemployment relationship influenced by inflation, competition or the housing market?<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' We consider both the overall macroeconomic performance of the UK labour market since 1997, as well as some of the underlying micro problems, particularly those facing unskilled workers, On the macro front, we have seen unemployment decline to its lowest level for a generation without excessive inflationary pressure. The main factors behind this decline in equilibrium unemployment stem from actions taken by the previous government. Changes introduced in the labour market since 1997 are likely to have only small effects on equilibrium unemployment. Underlying this favourable aggregate labour-market performance are serious problems facing unskilled men who have seen dramatic increases in their unemployment and inactivity rates, concentrated particularly in Wales and the northern regions of Britain. The policy response since 1997 has focused on encouraging the unskilled into work (the New Deal) while simultaneously raising the rewards for working (the minimum wage, tax credits). These policies have had a positive impact on youth employment and have significantly reduced child poverty. So far, however, existing policies do not seem likely to have a serious impact on the high levels of worklessness among unskilled men. Copyright 2002, Oxford University Press.'] [' This paper considers three aspects of the job insecurity facing British men in the last two decades. The probability of becoming unemployed, the costs of unemployment in terms of real wage losses and the probability that the continuously employed will experience substantial real wage losses. The first of these has not risen in the last two decades, the second has risen by around 40% and the third has risen, particularly for the top skill groups. Copyright Royal Economic Society 2002'] [' In this assessment, we focus on four main areas. First, we consider overall macroeconomic performance, and conclude that the policy changes since 1997 have been a significant success. Second, we consider productivity performance. This has been very modest. We isolate a number of important factors underlying this poor performance, particularly relative to the improving productivity performance of the United States. There have been some key policy changes with regard to competition and R&amp;D; but, given the overall problems, we should not expect any rapid improvement in this area. Third, we look at poverty rates. We discuss the reasons for the dramatic rise in poverty since 1979 and note how the policy changes since 1997 have started to reverse this seemingly inexorable trend. Finally, we set the scene for some of the other studies in this issue by noting the exceptionally low levels of net investment in the public sector since 1975 and the dramatic declines in the relative pay of certain groups of public sector workers since the same date. These trends have strongly exacerbated problems in the key areas of health, education, and transport. Copyright 2002, Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' In this paper we have undertaken an empirical analysis of the notion that firms introduce managerial innovations as a consequence of bad times, as in the "pit-stop" view of recessions. We first analyze a dynamic model of the firm and conclude that a competitive firm operating in a perfect capital market may well devote more of its employees\' time to reorganization and other productivity improving activities during periods where the real output price or productivity is declining (e.g. recessions). We then investigate the hypothesis that a worsening of the firm\'s situation will lead to the introduction of productivity improving innovations of various kinds. Our individual company data tend to confirm this hypothesis with the single exception that firms tend to become more centralized when their real or financial position declines, despite the general view that it is decentralization which tends to improve the operation of a company in the long run. Copyright 2001 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd'] ['The Netherlands and the United Kingdom have experienced a major decline in unemployment rates since the early 1980s. Over the same period, there was also a strong decline in non-employment rates. Since in most other countries of the European Union such declines did not occur there is something of an unemployment miracle in both countries. Combinations of supply-oriented policies causing a significant reduction of equilibrium unemployment rates in both countries are responsible for this.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['How does monetary policy work? While one aspect of the investigation has focused on the behaviour of consumers, another has concentrated on the behaviour of companies faced with the kind of financial pressures associated with tight monetary policy. The general focus in this area is on the impact of financial constraints on investment expenditures including fixed capital and inventories. Our purpose is to shift this focus somewhat and to concentrate on the impact of financial pressure on other aspects of company behaviour. We first discuss briefly the theoretical background and the empirical formulation. Then, using panel data on a large number of UK companies, we derive a number of results.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In this paper, we investigate the role of three external factors in generating improved productivity performance in companies. These are product market competition, financial market pressure and shareholder control. We have found, using data from around 580 UK manufacturing companies, that all three of these are associated with some degree of increased productivity growth. More specifically, average rents normalised on value-added (an inverse measure of competition) are negatively related to (total factor) productivity growth, interest payments normalised on cash flow are positively related to future productivity growth and firms with a dominant external shareholder from the financial sector have higher productivity growth rates. Furthermore, there is some evidence to suggest that the last two factors can substitute for competition.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The received wisdom tells us that the rigidity and inflexibility of European job markets relative to that in the United States is the reason why Europe has high unemployment. This paper argues that this broad brush analysis is simply too vague to be useful. Indeed it is probably positively misleading. Many labor market institutions that conventionally come under the heading of rigidities have no observable impact on unemployment and may otherwise serve a useful purpose.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Are people right to think that competition improves corporate performance? The author's investigations indicate first that there are some theoretical reasons for believing this hypothesis to be correct but they are not overwhelming. Furthermore, the existing empirical evidence on this question is weak. However, the results reported here, based on the analysis of around 670 U.K. companies, provide some support for this view. Most important, the author presents evidence that competition, as measured by increased numbers of competitors or by lower levels of rents, is associated with a significantly higher rate of total factor productivity growth. Copyright 1996 by University of Chicago Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper analyzes time-series on some 800 British manufacturing companies to address various questions concerning the role of insiders and market power in wage determination. The following are the most important results. First, product market power has a positive impact on wages; this impact is enhanced in large firms but is not influenced by union status. Second, while firm-specific factors influence wages, the size of these effects is not influenced by union status, firm size or product market power; however, product market power reduces the generally strong negative effect of unemployment on wages. Finally, there is no robust evidence of insider power at work in wage-setting irrespective of product market position. Copyright 1994 by The London School of Economics and Political Science.'] ['Discusses a number of issues put forward by the other authors in this volume. In particular considers the potential role of real interest rates in unemployment models, the importance of the trade balance and related constraints in open economy models and the uniqueness and stability of unemployment equilibria.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper presents an empirical analysis of investment in British industry using data at the industry level and focusing on union effects. The authors find that the rate of investment is around 28 percent lower in firms that recognize unions and have an average union density relative to those in which unions are not recognized. This is the gross effect, holding wages, product prices, and productivity constant. If we take account of union effects on these as well, the overall effect is an investment reduction of 16 percent in competitive firms and 3 percent in noncompetitive firms. Copyright 1992 by Royal Economic Society.'] [" This paper derives, and then estimates, a model of employment where unions and firms bargain over wages and possibly employment, and efficiency wage considerations may be important. It illustrates the difficulties associated in interpreting many existing attempts to discriminate between alternative models. The results (based on over 200 U.K. firms) suggest that employment is negatively related to the firm's own wage and the change in the own wage relative to outside opportunities. The latter may be an efficiency wage effect. Various financial factors are also seen to have a significant effect on employment. Copyright 1991 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited."] [" This paper investigates the relative importance of firm-specific factors (i.e., insider forces) in wage determination. Using firm-level data on 219 U.K. companies over 1974-82, it finds that a 1 percent rise in a firm's prices or productivity relative to the aggregate economy leads to a rise in relative wages of 0.1-0.2 percent. As a corollary to this, outside factors, like the aggregate wage and the unemployment rate, also play an important role. There is evidence for insider-based hysteresis effects, but these are inversely related to the extent to which firms take national agreements into account. Copyright 1990 by Royal Economic Society."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The authors consider an economy in which all firms are unionized and bargain with their own union. If unions bargain over employment as well as wages, employment will be the same as if they bargain over wages only, provided that the production function is Cobb-Douglas. (Employment will be higher if the elasticity of substitution between labor and capital is smaller than unity.) If the authors start from a fully competitive labor market and then move to one of efficient bargaining (over wages and employment), employment falls. This is so even if the marginal utility of income is constant, so that bargaining is "strongly efficient." Copyright 1990, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [' This paper presents a survey of the economics of unemployment. It covers competitive and imperfect competition models, the role of different methods of wage determination, and explanation of postwar unemployment patterns in the OECD countries. Copyright 1990 by Royal Economic Society.'] [' This paper explores the reasons why inflation is, and has been for four decades, endemic in Britain. We argue that there is a fundamental supply-side constraint in the economy which takes deficit and increases in inflation. The mix of monetary and fiscal policy, along with private sector demand shocks, determines which combination of these three outcomes then occurs. In Britain, the fundamental constraint has shifted adversely over the last two decades and we enumerate some of the factors underlying this shift. As a consequence, policy makers have been confronted with ever more difficult choices and this has resulted in a persistent problem of high unemployment and relatively high inflation. Copyright 1990 by Oxford University Press.'] [' The article examines the real wage-employment relationship in the United States in the light of the diversity of results in the literature. It demonstrates that, when the relationship is correctly specified in the sense that due allowance is made for technical progress and capital accumulation, and the appropriate value-added deflator is used for the wage, then a negative relationship may be observed in the data. An incorrect specification, however, is as likely to lead to a positive relationship as a negative one. Copyright 1990 by University of Chicago Press.'] [" This paper explains shifts in the level of economic activity in Britain in the interwar period, particularly from 1928 to 1937, and relates these to movements in the real wage. The authors' general thesis is that the real wage follows a path that is perfectly consistent with the recession of the early 1930s being instigated, in the main, by demand shocks. Supply-side factors are only of minor significance. Copyright 1989 by Royal Economic Society."] ['Since 1979 productivity growth in Britain has improved markedly compared with Europe. The turnaround in productivity growth has two main causes. The British economy was subjected to a far more severe contraction of demand in 1980-81 than any other country. This led to a new realism, which was sustained by the legal changes in trade union power. Since 1979 there has been a worsening in the trade-off between unemployment and inflation. The poor unemployment/inflation trade-off is due to the neglect of skill training and education (causing skill shortages) and to the build-up of long-term unemployment (which does little to restrain inflation).<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper analyzes a number of disequilibrium mode ls of the labor market. The most general of these assumes that the aggregate mar ket consists of a series of submarkets, none of which are in excess demand, with the remainder being in excess supply. Assuming demands and supplies have a comm on structure across markets, with a normal error, then it is possible to write a ggregate employment as a nonlinear function of the common structure and the para meters of theerror distribution. Estimates of this model and various restricted versions of it are presented, including the standard run condition model and th e equilibrium model. Copyright 1986 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']