 [' type="main" xml:id="ecca12094-abs-0001"&gt; Governments try to discourage risky health behaviours, yet such behaviours are bewilderingly persistent. We suggest a new conceptual approach to this puzzle. We show that expected utility theory predicts that unhappy people will be attracted to risk-taking. Using US seatbelt data, we document evidence strongly consistent with that prediction. We exploit various methodological approaches, including Bayesian model selection and instrumental variable estimation. Using road accident data, we find strongly corroborative longitudinal evidence. Government policy may thus have to change. It may need to improve the underlying happiness of individuals instead of, or in addition to, its traditional concern with society\'s risk-taking symptoms.'] [' Little is known about the influence of people\xe2\x80\x99s diet on their psychological well-being. This study provides evidence of a link between the consumption of fruit and vegetables and high well-being. In cross-sectional data, happiness and mental health rise in an approximately dose\xe2\x80\x93response way with the number of daily portions of fruit and vegetables. Well-being peaks at approximately 7 portions per day. We document this relationship in three data sets, covering approximately 80,000 randomly selected British individuals, and for seven measures of well-being (life satisfaction, WEMWBS mental well-being, GHQ mental disorders, self-reported health, happiness, nervousness, and feeling low). The pattern is robust to adjustment for a large number of other demographic, social and economic variables. Reverse causality and problems of confounding remain possible. We discuss the strengths and weaknesses of our analysis, how government policy-makers might wish to react to it, and what kinds of further research\xe2\x80\x94especially randomized trials\xe2\x80\x94would be valuable. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2013'] ["Many governments wish to assess the quality of their universities. A prominent example is the UK's new Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2014. In the REF, peer-review panels will be provided with information on publications and citations. This paper suggests a way in which panels could choose the weights to attach to these two indicators. The analysis draws in an intuitive way on the concept of Bayesian updating (where citations gradually reveal information about the initially imperfectly-observed importance of the research). Our study should not be interpreted as the argument that only mechanistic measures ought to be used in a REF.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper uses longitudinal data to explore whether greater job status makes a person healthier. Taking the evidence as a whole, promotees do not exhibit a health improvement after promotion. Instead the data suggest that workers with good health are more likely to be promoted. In the private sector, we find that job promotion significantly worsens people's psychological strain (on a GHQ score). For the public sector, there are some tentative signs of the reverse. We discuss caveats to our conclusions, suggest caution in their interpretation, and argue that further longitudinal studies are needed.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["Suicide kills more Americans each year than die in motor accidents. Yet its causes remain poorly understood. We suggest in this paper that the level of others\xe2\x80\x99 happiness may be a risk factor for suicide (although one's own happiness likely protects one from suicide). Using U.S. and international data, the paper provides evidence for a paradox: the happiest places tend to have the highest suicide rates. The analysis appears to be the first published study to be able to combine rich individual-level data sets\xe2\x80\x94one on life satisfaction in a newly available random sample of 1.3 million Americans and another on suicide decisions among an independent random sample of about 1 million Americans\xe2\x80\x94to establish this dark-contrasts paradox in a consistent way across U.S. states. The study also replicates the finding for the Western industrialized nations. The paradox, which holds individual characteristics constant, is not an artifact of population composition or confounding factors (or of the ecological fallacy). We conclude with a discussion of the possible role of relative comparisons of utility."] [" This paper uses Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System data to study life satisfaction and mental health across the geography of the United States. The analysis draws on a sample of 1.3 million citizens. Initially we control for people's personal characteristics (though not income). There is no correlation between states' regression-adjusted well-being and their GDP per capita. States like Louisiana, plus Washington, D.C., have high psychological well-being levels; California and West Virginia have low well-being. When we control for incomes, satisfaction with life is lower in richer states, just as compensating-differentials theory would predict. Nevertheless, some puzzles remain. \xc2\xa9 2011 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] ["This paper provides evidence of the importance of what might be termed 'expert leaders'. Although it is widely assumed that leaders affect the performance of their organizations, the complexity of this social-science research area has meant that comparatively little empirical progress has been made. We deliberately choose a narrow focus. We examine a high-skill setting in which there are accurate data on performance. We argue that an influential role is played by a leader's expert knowledge. A strong predictor of a leader's success in year T is that person's level of technical attainment, in the underlying activity, in approximately year T-20. Our data are on US professional basketball. The paper documents a correlation between brilliance as a player and the (much later) winning percentage and playoff success of that person as a team coach. The results suggest that leaders' effects on performance are substantial and are visible in the data within the first 12 months of a coach being hired."] [" What determines human beings' political preferences? Using nationally representative longitudinal data, we show that having daughters makes people more likely to vote for left-wing political parties. Having sons leads people to favor right-wing parties. The paper checks that our result is not an artifact of family stopping rules, discusses the predictions from a simple economic model, and tests for possible reverse causality. \xc2\xa9 2010 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This article argues - in line with the proposals of the recent Stiglitz Commission on the Measurement of Economic Performance and Social Progress - that we should now be measuring a nation's emotional prosperity rather than its economic prosperity (i.e. we ought to focus on the level of mental well-being, not on the number of pounds in people's bank accounts). The article reviews recent ideas in this field. It also describes seven recent studies that, worryingly, suggest that emotional prosperity may be declining through time. For labour-market specialists, a key question for future research is how much this downward trend can be traced back to increased pressures in working life. That question currently remains open. Copyright (c) Blackwell Publishing Ltd/London School of Economics 2010."] ["The paper sets out a theory of hedonic adaptation and resilience. By distinguishing between stocks and flows of psychological resources, it suggests a new way to think about the dynamics of human well-being or 'happiness'. Central to the analysis is a concept we refer to as hedonic capital. We build on the idea that the evolutionary function of happiness is as a motivating device. Our model successfully replicates the patterns routinely found in well-being data - particularly the empirical regularity of an approximately stable level of well-being and the adaptive tendency to return towards that level. The formal model provides a number of testable empirical predictions."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" If human beings care about their relative weight, a form of imitative obesity can emerge (in which people subconsciously keep up with the weight of the Joneses). Using Eurobarometer data on 29 countries, this paper provides cross-sectional evidence that overweight perceptions and dieting are influenced by a person's relative BMI, and longitudinal evidence from the German Socioeconomic Panel that well-being is influenced by relative BMI. Highly educated people see themselves as fatter-at any given actual weight-than those with low education. These results should be treated cautiously, and fixed-effects estimates are not always well determined, but there are grounds to take seriously the possibility of socially contagious obesity. (JEL: D1, I12, I31) (c) 2009 by the European Economic Association."] [" We collect data on the movement and productivity of elite scientists. Their mobility is remarkable: nearly half of the world's most-cited physicists work outside their country of birth. We show they migrate systematically towards nations with large R &amp; D spending. Our study cannot adjudicate on whether migration improves scientists' productivity, but we find that movers and stayers have identical h-index citations scores. Immigrants in the UK and US now win Nobel Prizes proportionately less often than earlier. US residents' h-indexes are relatively high. We describe a framework where a key role is played by low mobility costs in the modern world. Copyright \xef\xbf\xbd The Author(s). Journal compilation \xef\xbf\xbd Royal Economic Society 2009."] ['This paper is a continuation of results reported in our article "Is well-being U-shaped over the life cycle?" (Blanchflower &amp; Oswald, 2008). It provides new evidence that well-being follows a curve through life. We use data on half a million randomly sampled individuals across eight major European nations. Importantly, we show that in this set of countries there is a U-shape even in unadjusted data, that is, without the inclusion of control variables. But we also advise against a focus on elementary bivariate associations.'] ["In surveys of well-being, countries such as Denmark and the Netherlands emerge as particularly happy while nations like Germany and Italy report lower levels of happiness. But are these kinds of findings credible? This paper provides some evidence that the answer is yes. Using data on 16 countries, it shows that happier nations report systematically lower levels of hypertension. As well as potentially validating the differences in measured happiness across nations, this suggests that blood-pressure readings might be valuable as part of a national well-being index. A new ranking of European nations' GHQ-N6 mental health scores is also given."] ["We present evidence that psychological well-being is U-shaped through life. A difficulty with research on this issue is that there are likely to be omitted cohort effects (earlier generations may have been born in, say, particularly good or bad times). First, using data on 500,000 randomly sampled Americans and West Europeans, the paper designs a test that can control for cohort effects. Holding other factors constant, we show that a typical individual's happiness reaches its minimum - on both sides of the Atlantic and for both males and females - in middle age. Second, evidence is provided for the existence of a similar U-shape through the life-course in East European, Latin American and Asian nations. Third, a U-shape in age is found in separate well-being regression equations in 72 developed and developing nations. Fourth, using measures that are closer to psychiatric scores, we document a comparable well-being curve across the life cycle in 2 other data sets (1) in GHQ-N6 mental health levels among a sample of 16,000 Europeans, and (2) in reported depression-and-anxiety levels among 1 million UK citizens. Fifth, we discuss some apparent exceptions, particularly in developing nations, to the U-shape. Sixth, we note that American male birth-cohorts seem to have become progressively less content with their lives. Our results are based on regression equations in which other influences, such as demographic variables and income, are held constant."] ["I suggest the idea of a reporting function, r(.), from reality to feelings. The 'happiness' literature claims we have demonstrated diminishing marginal utility of income. I show not, and that knowing r(.)'s curvature is crucial. A quasi-experiment on heights is studied."] ['This paper is an empirical study of partial hedonic adaptation. It provides longitudinal evidence that people who become disabled go on to exhibit considerable recovery in mental well-being. In fixed-effects equations we estimate the degree of hedonic adaptation at -- depending on the severity of the disability -- approximately 30% to 50%. Our calculations should be viewed as illustrative; more research, on other data sets, is needed. Nevertheless, we discuss potential implications of our results for economists and the courts.'] ['It has been known for centuries that the rich and famous have longer lives than the poor and ordinary. Causality, however, remains trenchantly debated. The ideal experiment would be one in which extra status could somehow be dropped upon a sub-sample of individuals while those in a control group of comparable individuals received none. This paper attempts to formulate a test in that spirit. It collects 19th-century birth data on science Nobel Prize winners. Correcting for potential biases, we estimate that winning the Prize, compared to merely being nominated, is associated with between 1 and 2 years of extra longevity.'] [" This paper presents a study of the mental distress caused by bereavement. The greatest emotional losses are from the death of a spouse, the second greatest from the death of a child, and the third from the death of a parent. The paper explores how happiness regression equations might be used in tort cases to calculate compensatory damages for emotional harm and pain and suffering. We examine alternative well-being variables, discuss adaptation, consider the possibility that bereavement affects someone's marginal utility of income, and suggest a procedure for correcting for the endogeneity of income. Although the paper's contribution is methodological and further research is needed, some illustrative compensation amounts are discussed. (c) 2008 by The University of Chicago. All rights reserved.."] [' Scientific-funding bodies are increasingly under pressure to use journal rankings to measure research quality. Hiring and promotion committees routinely hear an equivalent argument: \'this is important work because it is to be published in prestigious journal X\'. But how persuasive is such an argument? This paper examines data on citations to articles published 25 years ago. It finds that it is better to write the best article published in an issue of a medium-quality journal such as the "OBES" than all four of the worst four articles published in an issue of an elite journal like the "AER". Decision-makers need to understand this. Copyright (c) The London School of Economics and Political Science 2006.'] [' Is affluence a good thing? The book "The Challenge of Affluence" by Avner Offer (2006) argues that economic prosperity weakens self-control and undermines human well-being. Consistent with a pessimistic view, we show that psychological distress has been rising through time in modern Great Britain. Taking over-eating as an example, our data reveal that half the British population view themselves as overweight, and that happiness and mental health are worse among fatter people in Britain and Germany. Comparisons also matter. We discuss problems of inference and argue that longitudinal data are needed. We suggest a theory of obesity imitation where utility depends on relative weight. Copyright 2007 The Author(s). Journal compilation Royal Economic Society 2007.'] ['One of the famous questions in social science is whether money makes people happy. We offer new evidence by using longitudinal data on a random sample of Britons who receive medium-sized lottery wins of between \xc2\xa31000 and \xc2\xa3120,000 (that is, up to approximately U.S. $200,000). When compared to two control groups \xe2\x80\x93 one with no wins and the other with small wins \xe2\x80\x93 these individuals go on eventually to exhibit significantly better psychological health. Two years after a lottery win, the average measured improvement in mental wellbeing is 1.4 GHQ points.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Divorce is a leap in the dark. The paper investigates whether people who split up actually become happier. Using the British Household Panel Survey, we can observe an individual's level of psychological well-being in the years before and after divorce. Our results show that divorcing couples reap psychological gains from the dissolution of their marriages. Men and women benefit equally. The paper also studies the effects of bereavement, of having dependant children and of remarriage. We measure well-being by using general health questionnaire and life satisfaction scores. Copyright 2006 Royal Statistical Society."] ['According to the well-being measure known as the U.N. Human Development Index, Australia now ranks 3rd in the world and higher than all other English-speaking nations. This paper questions that assessment. It reviews work on the economics of happiness, considers implications for policymakers, and explores where Australia lies in international subjective well-being rankings. Using new data on approximately 50,000 randomly sampled individuals from 35 nations, the paper shows that Australians have some of the lowest levels of job satisfaction in the world. Moreover, among the sub-sample of English-speaking nations, where a common language should help subjective measures to be reliable, Australia performs poorly on a range of happiness indicators. The paper discusses this paradox. Our purpose is not to reject HDI methods, but rather to argue that much remains to be understood in this area.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The links between income, sexual behavior and reported happiness are studied using recent data on a sample of 16,000 adult Americans. The paper finds that sexual activity enters strongly positively in happiness equations. Higher income does not buy more sex or more sexual partners. Married people have more sex than those who are single, divorced, widowed or separated. The happiness-maximizing number of sexual partners in the previous year is calculated to be 1. Highly educated females tend to have fewer sexual partners. Homosexuality has no statistically significant effect on happiness. Copyright The editors of the "Scandinavian Journal of Economics", 2004 .'] ['This paper estimates micro-econometric happiness equations for the United States and Great Britain. Reported levels of wellbeing have declined over the last quarter of a century in the US; life satisfaction has run approximately flat through time in Britain. These findings are consistent with the Easterlin hypothesis (1974, 1995). The happiness of American blacks, however, has risen. Despite legislation on gender discrimination, the well-being of women has declined. White women in the US have been the biggest losers. Well-being equations have a stable structure. Money buys happiness. People care also about relative income. Wellbeing is U-shaped in age. The paper estimates the dollar values of events like unemployment and divorce. They are large. A lasting marriage (compared to widow-hood as a \xe2\x80\x98natural\xe2\x80\x99 experiment), for example, is estimated to be worth $100,000 a year.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' We show that macroeconomic movements have strong effects on the happiness of nations. First, we find that there are clear microeconomic patterns in the psychological well-being levels of a quarter of a million randomly sampled Europeans and Americans from the 1970s to the 1990s. Happiness equations are monotonically increasing in income, and have similar structure in different countries. Second, movements in reported well-being are correlated with changes in macroeconomic variables such as gross domestic product. This holds true after controlling for the personal characteristics of respondents, country fixed effects, year dummies, and country-specific time trends. Third, the paper establishes that recessions create psychic losses that extend beyond the fall in GDP and rise in the number of people unemployed. These losses are large. Fourth, the welfare state appears to be a compensating force: higher unemployment benefits are associated with higher national well-being. \xc2\xa9 2003 President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper studies utility interdependence in the laboratory: subjects can pay to reduce ("burn") other subjects\' money. Most of them do. The price elasticity of burning is mostly less than unity. There is a strong correlation between wealth, or rank, and the amounts by which subjects are burnt. Many burners, especially disadvantaged ones, care about whether another person "deserves" the money he has. Deservingness is not simply a matter of relative payoff.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This article uses various micro data sets to study entrepreneurship. Consistent with the existence of capital constraints on potential entrepreneurs, the estimates imply that the probability of self-employment depends positively upon whether the individual ever received an inheritance or gift. When directly questioned in interview surveys, potential entrepreneurs say that raising capital is their principal problem. Consistent with the authors' theoretical model's predictions, the self-employed report higher levels of job and life satisfaction than employees. Childhood psychological test scores, however, are not strongly correlated with later self-employment. Copyright 1998 by University of Chicago Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The paper develops an efficiency-wage model in which input prices affect the equilibrium rate of unemployment. We show that a simple framework based on only two prices (the real price of oil and the real rate of interest) is able to explain the main postwar movements in the rate of U.S. joblessness. The equations do well in forecasting unemployment many years out of sample, and provide evidence that the oil-price spike associated with Iraq\'s invasion of Kuwait appears to be a component of the "mystery" recession that followed. \xc2\xa9 1998 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technolog'] ["If a nation's economic performance improves, how much extra happiness does that buy its citizens? Most public debate assumes - without real evidence - that the answer is a lot. This paper examines the question by using information on well-being in Western countries. The data are of four kinds : on reported happiness, on reported life satisfaction, on reported job satisfaction, and on the number of suicides. These reveal patterns that are not visible to the anecdotal eye. In industrialized countries, well-being appears to rise as real national income grows. But the rise is so small as to be sometimes almost undetectable. Unemployment, however, seems to be a large source of unhappiness. This suggests that governments ought to be trying to reduce the amount of joblessness in the economy. In a country that is already rich, policy aimed instead at raising economic growth may be of comparatively little value.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [" A central question in labor economics and macroeconomics is whether the textbook competitive model provides an adequate representation of the labor market. Using longitudinal data on companies and establishments, this article suggests that it may not. As predicted by rent-sharing models of the labor market, changes in profitability are shown to feed through into long-run changes in wages. These are not temporary wage effects and are not driven by the unionized workplaces in the data. The article's estimates imply that, for rent-sharing reasons alone, Richard A. Lester's (1952) 'range' of wages is approximately 16 percent. Copyright 1997 by University of Chicago Press."] ['"The paper is an attempt to test whether there is a wage curve in western Germany and if so whether it might be explained by efficiency-wage forces. Such a theory makes two predictions. First, where the degree of supervision is low, wages will be high. Second, where the degree of supervision is low, the unemployment elasticity of pay will be high. The German Socioeconomic Panel is one of the few data sets that records information about the degree of supervision. Using these data, we find that the first prediction is accepted and the second prediction is rejected. Our broad judgement is that there is a German wage curve with an elasticity of approximately -0.1, but that the results are not strongly supportive of an efficiency-wage explanation for its existence." (Author\'s abstract, IAB-Doku) ((en))'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper suggests a new test for rent-sharing in the U.S. labor market. Using an unbalanced panel from the manufacturing sector, it shows that a rise in a sector's profitability leads after some years to an increase in the long-run level of wages in that sector. The paper controls for workers' characteristics, for industry fixed effects, and for unionism. Richard A. Lester's (1952) range of wages is estimated, for rent-sharing reasons alone, at approximately 24 percent of the mean wage. Copyright 1996, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper documents a statistical regulatity or law. It shows that there exists a downward-sloping curve linking the level of a worker's pay to the unemployment rate in the worker's region. The same curve can be found in microeconomic data sets from sixteen countries. The existence of this curve raises doubts about conventional wisdom in labor economics, regional economics, and macroeconomics."] [" Following A. W. Phillips's (1958) original work on the United Kingdom, applied research on unemployment and wages has been dominated by the analysis of highly aggregated time-series data sets. However, it has proved difficult with such methods to uncover statistically reliable models. This paper adopts a different approach. It uses macroeconomic data on 175,000 British workers from 1973 to 1990 to provide evidence for the existence of a negatively sloped relationship linking the level of pay to the local rate of unemployment. The paper casts doubt on standard ideas in macroeconomics, regional economics, and labor economics. Copyright 1994 by Royal Economic Society."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The microeconomic forces that influence real wages are not fully understood. This paper studies pay determination using data on approximately 600 labor contracts. It finds that the real wage is an increasing function of past profitability in the employer's industry and a decreasing function of the level of unemployment in the employer's region. These results are consistent with rent-sharing theories. Copyright 1992, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] [' Although there exists a large literature on the effects of trade unions upon wages, there is no published work that uses microeconomic data on establishments to examine the employment consequences of unionism. This paper addresses this issue with a recent British data set and shows that, even after the addition of a substantial set of control variables, there is a strong association between poor employment performance and the presence of trade unions. The union employment growth differential is estimated at approximately -3 percent per annum. Copyright 1991 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The paper uses British county data from the 1980s to try to identify the factors that determine the number of children in care. A doubling of unemployment appears to be associated, ceteris paribus, with a rise by two thirds in the number of children in care. In this complex and relatively unexplored field, however, all findings must be treated cautiously. Copyright 1991 by Royal Economic Society.'] [' Is academic economics becoming increasingly divorced from reality? This paper studies the contents of full-length articles published in the Economic Journal between 1959 and 1990. It finds, contrary to what some believe, that there has been significant growth in empirical research on real firms, people, and other microeconomic agents. However, this upward trend apparently leveled out, at about one article in five, in the middle of the 1970s. Copyright 1991 by Royal Economic Society.'] [' This paper, which follows in an London School of Economics tradition begun by A. W. Phillips and J. D. Sargan, examines the role of unemployment in shaping pay. In contrast to most of the literature, it (1) uses microeconometric data on individuals and workplaces, (2) examines a variety of data sets as a check on the robustness of results, and (3) studies the effects of unemployment on the real wage level (not on the rate of change of pay or prices). Evidence is found--on British and U.S. data--of a wage curve. The curve has a negative gradient at low levels of unemployment, but becomes horizontal at relatively high levels of unemployment. Copyright 1990 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics.'] [" The determinants of British white-collar pay are investigated using two surveys of establishments and four surveys of employees. It is found that, just as for manual employees, wages are highest in large foreign-owned workplaces with low proportions of part-time and female workers. There is some evidence that pay is depressed by external unemployment, but little evidence that it is affected by the establishment's financial performance. Copyright 1990 by Royal Economic Society."] [' This paper argues that wage determination is best seen as a kind of rent-sharing in which workers\' bargaining power is influenced by conditions in the external labor market. It uses British establishment data from 1984 to show that pay depends upon a blend of insider pressure (including the employer\'s financial performance and oligopolistic position) and outsider pressure (including external wages and unemployment). R. A. Lester\'s feasible "range" of wages appears typically to be between 8 and 22 percent of pay. Estimates of the unemployment elasticity of the wage lie in a narrow band around -0.1. Copyright 1990 by The London School of Economics and Political Science.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper estimates that, in 1984, 43 percent of British private sector establishments had some form of profit- related pay. Regression results do not show that these establishments had statistically-significant better financial performance. Cross-ta bulations do not suggest that the establishments with income-sharing schemes had noticeably greater employment growth or better industrial relations. Copyright 1988 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The paper surveys the theoretical and empirical literature on the economic effects of profit sharing between workers and firms. It is critical of the case for government subsidization of such sharing schemes. Copyright 1987 by Royal Economic Society.'] [" This paper studies wage inflexibility in Britain. It examines various kinds of microeconomic data on move ments in real pay and uses aggregate data to estimate real consumptio n earnings and real product wage rate equations. The paper's first ma in point is that the unemployment elasticity of real wages is small ( a little under A 0.1), and that it rises or falls with the unemployme nt rate, depending on the wage series to be explained. The second is that profits enter positively and significantly into real wage and ea rnings equations (with an elasticity of approximately 0.05). Copyright 1987 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd"] [' This paper constructs a model of trade-union behavior in which there is a distinction between "insiders" and "outsiders." This is used to examine one of the most troublesome issues in macroeconomic theory, namely, the extent to which a rise in aggregate demand might generate wage increases rather than growth in employment. A generalization of the most widely used union utility function is presented. The analysis reveals the conditions under which insiders will agree to let outsiders into employment, derives two-step wage preferences, and proves a new result on wage rigidity. Copyright 1987 by Royal Economic Society.'] [" This paper constructs a dynamic model of trade-union behavior in which union membership is endogenous. Unemployed workers are assumed to leave their union (as they seem to in reality) and the union must therefore solve an intertemporal optim ization problem. The results imply that conventional static models ov erstate the distortions caused by monopoly unionism and that the rece nt empirical mod-els of union behavior may be misspecified. The paper 's analysis can be seen as an attempt to construct a model of the pos t-entry closed shop. Copyright 1987 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited."] [' The paper provides evidence to show that many U.S. labor contracts havelittle or no private unemployment insurance provision. A model of an optional contract under asymmetric information, with no private unemployment insurance, is presented. Underemployment and involuntaryunemployment may coexist. Copyright 1986 by American Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The paper studies the micro-economics of inflation taxes and marginal employment subsidies. It proves under very weak assumptions (i) an inflation tax will reduce the long-run equilibrium wage or price and (ii) that a marginal employment subsidy will raise the long-run equilibrium employment level. The theorems are illustrated with examples. The paper also proves (iii) that in special circumstances a tax on inflation is exactly equilivalent to a marginal employment subsidy.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper studies the simultaneous determination of the socially optimal levels of unemployment insurance, income taxation and experience rating. Earlier work uses models in which there is no point for government intervention. There is only a rationale for state unemployment insurance when there is also a need for redistributive taxation.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This article examines the behavior of a competitive firm in a world in which workers gradually acquire skill and experience. It is shown that the firm will not pay workers--who are indexed in this model by seniority--the value of their marginal product. The article also proposes a simple incentive argument as a possible explanation for the fact that many firms seem to pay wages based upon age and length of service.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']