 ["This study investigates the existence of the environmental Kuznets curve (EKC) hypothesis in Vietnam during the period 1981\xe2\x80\x932011. To realize the goals of this study, a pollution model was established applying the Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) methodology. The results revealed that the pollution haven hypothesis does exist in Vietnam because capital increases pollution. In addition, imports also increase pollution which indicates that most of Vietnam's imported products are energy intensive and highly polluted. However, exports have no effect on pollution which indicates that the level of exports is not significant enough to affect pollution. Moreover, fossil fuel energy consumption increases pollution while renewable energy consumption has no significant effect in reducing pollution. Furthermore, labor force reduces pollution since most of Vietnam's labor force is in the agricultural and services sectors which are less energy intensive than the industrial sector. Based on the obtained results, the EKC hypothesis does not exist because the relationship between GDP and pollution is positive in both the short and long run."] ["This study re-investigates the export-led growth hypothesis for Asia's Four Little Dragons using cointegration and rolling causality analyses. Employing both bivariate (exports and GDP) and trivariate (exports, GDP and exchange rate) models, the study finds that exports and GDP are cointegrated for all the four economies, implying that there is a long run relationship between the variables. However, the rolling regression-based MWALD test shows that export-led growth in each of the four economies is not stable over their respective period of analysis. Instead of export, policymakers should start to search for alternative catalyst of growth to continuously as well as effectively promote long-term economic growth in the Four Little Dragon economies."] ['This paper provides empirical evidence of an environmental Kuznets curve (EKC) hypothesis for Portugal by applying autoregressive distributed lag bounds testing approach from 1971 to 2008. In order to capture Portugal\xe2\x80\x99s historical experience, demographic changes and international trade on carbon emissions, we augment the traditional income-emissions model with variables such as energy consumption, urbanization, and trade openness in time series framework. Empirical results confirm the evidence of EKC hypothesis in both the short-run and long-run. All variables carry the expected signs except trade openness. Despite the success of Portugal in containing CO2 emissions so far, it is important to note that in recent years, carbon emissions have risen. In order to comply with the 1992 Kyoto Protocol on CO2 emissions, there is need for policies that focus on the sectors responsible for CO2 emissions.'] ['The main goal of this study is to examine the events that caused the environmental degradation in the MENA (Middle East and North African) region. To achieve the goal of this study, a panel model that represents the environmental degradation utilizing ecological footprint as a better indicator is constructed taken the period 1996\xe2\x80\x932012 investigating 14 MENA countries. The results from the Pedroni cointegration test revealed that ecological footprint, energy consumption, urbanization, trade openness, industrial development and political stability are cointegrated. Moreover, the results of FMOLS (fully modified ordinary least square) concluded that energy consumption, urbanization, trade openness and industrial development increases environmental damage while the political stability lessens it in the long run. In addition, the Granger causality revealed that the used variables have short run and long run causal relationship with the ecological footprint. Moreover, different directions of causal relationship were found between the variables. According to the outcomes of this study, a number of policy recommendations were provided for the MENA countries that can help them to reduce their environmental degradation.'] ['This paper investigates the long run dynamics of economic growth and biomass consumption nexus by applying dynamic panel analyses for 51 Sub-Sahara African countries for 1980\xe2\x80\x932009 period. The results show that economic growth is affected by biomass consumption, openness and population significantly and positively in African countries. GDP elasticity with respect to biomass consumption is close to unity and the elasticities of GDP in terms of openness are found statistically significant (between 0.259 and 0.348). According to homogeneous variance structure, one percent increase in variables of biomass, openness and population will lead GDP to increase by 1.818%, 0.269% and 0.676%, respectively. However, according to estimations from heterogeneous variance structure indicate that one percent increase in biomass, openness and population variables will cause GDP to increase by 0.820%, 0.259% and 0.811%, respectively. In conclusion, this paper finds significant effect of biomass consumption on GDP in 51 Africa countries.'] ['This study reexamines the relationship between energy consumption per capita and real GDP per capita for Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand using both panel data causality which is taking into account cross-sectional dependence and heterogeneity among the countries and time series causality tests for the period 1971\xe2\x80\x932009. The findings indicate that taking into account cross-sectional dependence has a substantial effect on the achieved results. The conservation hypothesis is supported for Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines. Although a bidirectional relation is found in the case of Thailand, since there is no positive effect of energy consumption on GDP, the conservation hypothesis is supported. In the pattern of Singapore, the neutrality hypothesis is supported. In addition, the increase in investment and labor force lead to more energy consumption in Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand.'] ['This study explores the fossil fuels electricity consumption-growth of the gross domestic product (GDP) relationship in the six Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries for the period 1980\xe2\x80\x932012. The aim of this study is to examine whether energy conservation policies are appropriate for these countries to reduce their high levels of electricity consumption. The autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) and the Toda\xe2\x80\x93Yamamoto\xe2\x80\x93Dolado\xe2\x80\x93L\xc3\xbctkepohl (TYDL) methodologies were employed to investigate this relationship. The ARDL results revealed that fossil fuels electricity consumption has a long run positive effect on GDP growth in the GCC countries. However, the TYDL Granger causality revealed different causality relationships among the countries. A bi-directional causality was found between fossil fuels electricity consumption and GDP growth in Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) while one way causality from fossil fuels electricity consumption to GDP growth was found in Oman and Qatar. On the other hand, no causality was concluded between the variables in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. From the results, it is clear that energy conservation is not an ideal policy for the Bahrain, UAE, Oman, and Qatar because it will have a negative consequence on their output. However, this policy can be implemented in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia since it will not harm their output.'] ['Although many factors have been identified to explain the nexus between electricity consumption and economic growth, the empirical evidence is rather mixed. Given these contradictory conclusions, the aim of this paper is to find out which outcome the meta-analysis would support by applying meta-analysis to a sample of the empirical results of 43 studies published between 1996 and 2013. We found that the conservation hypothesis is widely associated to American and European countries. However, conservative policies are likely to have an adverse effect on the economic growth in Asian and MENA countries. Conversely to expectations, the growth hypothesis is heavily associated to studied countries and considered modeling specifications. Additionally, while a neutrality hypothesis is insignificantly associated to MENA countries, the feedback hypothesis is not supported when appealing a panel of American economies. Therefore, the inconclusive results may be mainly due to the different country samples, econometric methodologies and to the fact that energy policies cannot be designed without considering economic and environmental factors, which are unfortunately excluded in the majority of studies. Further analysis should focus more on the new approaches rather than usual methods based on a set of common variables for different countries.'] ['The relationship between interest rates and inflation which is called Fisher effect has been investigated in both theoretical and empirical economics in vast literature. The contribution of this paper to the literature is to test the Fisher effect for the selected four transition economies that are also new EU member states. The empirical analysis is conducted by allowing for a structural break that takes place in year 2004. In this study, a case-wise bootstrap approach empirical method which developed by Hatemi-J and Hacker (2005) is used and the results support a tax adjusted Fisher effect in the presence of a structural break.'] ['This study attempts to analyse the determinants of inward FDI in the electrical and electronic (E&amp;E;) industry in Malaysia using bounds test approach for the 1980\xe2\x80\x932008 period. It is found that GDP, real exchange rate, financial development, corporate income tax, macroeconomic uncertainty and social uncertainty factors significantly affect inward FDI in E&amp;E; sector in Malaysia. Empirical results indicate that GDP, real exchange rate, financial development and macroeconomic uncertainty are positively related to inward FDI in E&amp;E; sector in the long run. However, corporate income tax and social uncertainty have a negative impact on inward FDI in E&amp;E; sector. Furthermore, the Granger causality results also indicate that all explanatory variables Granger-cause FDI in the long-run, but in the short-run only macroeconomic and social uncertainties Granger-cause FDI. The impact of social uncertainty is found to be greater than macroeconomic uncertainty. Thus, foreign investors in E&amp;E; sector seem to be more concern about the level of social security and safety when choosing their investment destination.'] ['The environmental Kuznets curve hypothesis posits that in the early stages of economic growth environmental degradation and pollution increase. However, as a nation reaches a certain level of income, measured in per capita terms, the trend reverses. The postulated relationship thus produces an inverted U-shaped curve. The topic has drawn much academic interest in the context of developed and emerging nations.'] ['Environmental degradation measured by CO2 emissions is a significant challenge to sustainable economic development. Owing to significant differences in the empirical relationship between the economic growth and CO2 emissions and policies adopted by different countries to overcome the challenge are not decisive. This study aims to generalize our knowledge about the relationship between CO2 emissions per capita and economic growth across the world for 1980\xe2\x80\x932009 periods. Besides, it explores whether the transformation of different economies (e.g. agrarian to industrial and industrial to sophisticated service economy) over the past few decades yielded any significant positive impact towards sustainable economic development by reducing the level of CO2 emission. Empirical results suggest that (i) except for high-income-countries, Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC) is a general phenomenon across the world, and (ii) the transformation of different economies towards a service economy has produced more pollution in high income countries and less pollution in low and middle income countries.'] ['The present study deals with an empirical investigation between CO2 emissions, energy intensity, economic growth and globalization using annual data over the period of 1970\xe2\x80\x932010 for Turkish economy. We applied unit root test and cointegration approach in the presence of structural breaks. The direction of causality between the variables is investigated by applying the VECM Granger causality approach. Our results confirmed the existence of cointegration between the series. The empirical evidence reported that energy intensity and economic growth (globalization) increase (condense) CO2 emissions. The results also validated the presence of environmental Kuznets curve (EKC). The causality analysis shows bidirectional causality between economic growth and CO2 emissions. This implies that economic growth can be boosted at the cost of environment.'] ['The aim of this paper is to examine the causal relationship between financial development, trade, economic growth, energy consumption and carbon emissions in Turkey for the 1960\xe2\x80\x932007 period. The bounds F\xe2\x80\x90test for cointegration test yields evidence of a long-run relationship between per capita carbon emissions, per capita energy consumption, per capita real income, the square of per capita real income, openness and financial development. The results show that an increase in foreign trade to GDP ratio results an increase in per capita carbon emissions and financial development variable has no significant effect on per capita carbon emissions in the long- run. These results also support the validity of EKC hypothesis in the Turkish economy. It means that the level of CO2 emissions initially increases with income, until it reaches its stabilization point, then it declines in Turkey. In addition, the paper explores causal relationship between the variables by using error-correction based Granger causality models.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The study analyzed dynamics of the relationship between tourism, energy consumption, and climate change for 25 OECD countries during 1995-2005. For the analysis, Panel VAR (PVAR) model was used. Results of panel unit root-tests show that tourism is nonstationary in the level form but stationary in first difference form and energy consumption and climate change are stationary variables in the level form. Analysis of bivariate model shows that results are sensitive with change in the measurement of the tourism variable, change in order of variable and inclusion of the third variable. However, results of our trivariate model are found to be insensitive with either the change in the measurement of our tourism variable or change in the ordering of the variables. Our results of IRFs shows that response of tourism in one SD shock in climate change and energy consumption and response of climate change emissions to tourism is marginally positive. Further, we find that response of climate change in one SD shock in energy consumption and response of energy consumption in one SD shock in tourism and climate change is zero.'] ['This aim of this paper is to use asymmetric causality tests to examine the coal consumption and Gross Domestic Product (GDP) relationship in Turkey based on data from 1980 to 2006. To investigate this relationship, a multivariate system is employed by including fixed capital formation and labor force variables into the model. The empirical results obtained from asymmetric causality tests show no causality for coal consumption and GDP relationship in Turkey. The results indicate that coal consumption does not affect growth; hence, energy conservation policies may be pursued without adversely affecting growth in Turkey. Thus, neutrality hypothesis is confirmed for Turkey. This means that a decrease in coal consumption does not affect economic growth and vice versa. In this case, policymakers should explore the feasibility of either decreasing the coal consumption or increasing the efficiency of coal consumption.'] ['This paper investigates the unit root properties of electricity consumption per capita of 67 developed and developing countries for the period 1971\xe2\x80\x932010. To examine the stationary properties of electricity consumption per capita, we have adopted Lee and Strazicich (2003, 2004) test of unit root that allows us to test for at most two endogenous breaks and uses the Lagrange Multiplier (LM) test statistics. Results show that 65 country series reject the unit root null hypothesis except for 2 country series. Thus, our empirical findings provide significant evidence that electricity consumption per capita is stationary in almost all countries considered. The stationarity of electricity consumption per capita indicates that it should be possible for the series to forecast future movements in the energy consumption based on the past behaviors of the series.'] ['This is an empirical study on the causal relationship between economic growth and energy for 26 European countries in a multivariate panel framework over the period 1975\xe2\x80\x932009 using a two-way fixed effects model and including greenhouse gas emissions, capital, fossil energy consumption, Herfindahl index (political competition) and number of years the government chief executive stays in office (political stability) as independent variables in the model. Empirical results confirm bidirectional causality between growth and political stability, capital and political stability, capital and fossil energy consumption. Whether political stability favors the implementation of growth or leads to corruption demands further research.'] ['Whether foreign direct investment (FDI) is beneficial to host country growth or not is a question debated since a long time. This paper provides a survey of the literature on FDI, export and growth, and empirically investigates the causal relationship between economic growth, export and FDI for the ten transition European countries (Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Slovak Republic and Slovenia). The ARDL bounds testing approach is used to investigate the existance of long-run relationship between FDI, export and economic growth for these countries. After detection of cointegratin relationship, the error-correction based Granger causality test is employed to examine the both long-run and short-run causality issues between the variables by using quarterly data from 1994 to 2008. These causality results reveal that there is causal relationship between FDI, export and economic growth in four out of ten countries considered.'] ['This study investigates the long-run relationship between natural gas prices and stock prices by using the Johansen and Juselius cointegration test and error\xe2\x80\x93correction based Granger causality models for the EU-15 countries. We employ quarterly data covering the period from 1990:1 to 2008:1. Empirical findings suggest that there is a unique long-term equilibrium relationship between natural gas prices, industrial production and stock prices in Austria, Denmark, Finland, Germany and Luxembourg. However, no relationship is found between these variables in the other ten EU-15 countries. Although we detect a significant long-run relationship between stock prices and natural gas prices, Granger causality test results imply an indirect Granger causal relationship between these two variables. In addition, we investigate the Granger causal relationship between stock returns, industrial production growth and natural gas price increase for Austria, Denmark, Finland, Germany and Luxembourg. As a result, increase in natural gas prices seem to impact industrial production growth at the first place. In turn, industrial production growth appears to affect stock returns.'] ['The aim of this study is to investigate the long-run and causal relationships between renewable and non-renewable energy consumption and economic growth by using classical and augmented production functions, and making a comparison between renewable and non-renewable energy sources in order to determine which type of energy consumption is more important for economic growth in G7 countries for 1980\xe2\x80\x932009 period. Autoregressive Distributed Lag approach to cointegration was employed for this purpose. Also, causality among energy consumption and economic growth was investigated by employing a recently developed causality test by Hatemi-J (2012). The long-run estimates showed that either renewable or non-renewable energy consumption matters for economic growth and augmented production function is more effective on explaining the considered relationship. On the other hand, although bidirectional causality is found for all countries in case of classical production function, mixed results are found for each country when the production function is augmented.'] ['The paper investigates the causality relationships among industrial production index, coal consumption and employment in industrial sector for the period of 1973:1\xe2\x80\x932011:10 in USA. After noticing that there are breaks in the regression model, the Hatemi-J test for cointegration is employed to the cases that take into account two possible regime shifts. It is concluded that there is a long run relationship between industrial production and industrial coal consumption with the breaks at 1983:4 and 1998:4. We found a negative relationship between coal consumption and industrial production for the period of 1973:1\xe2\x80\x931983:4 and positive relationship for 1983:5\xe2\x80\x931998:4 period. For the last period that covers 1983:5\xe2\x80\x932011:10, the cointegration relationship turned to negative. In addition, the results show that causal relationship between coal consumption and industrial production changes over time.'] ['This study examines the short-run and long-run causality issues between electricity consumption and economic growth in Turkey for 1968\xe2\x80\x932006 period by using Granger causality models augmented with a lagged error-correction term. The bounds F\xe2\x80\x93test for cointegration test yields evidence of a long-run relationship between employment ratio, electricity consumption per capita and real GDP per capita. The overall results from the three error-correction based Granger causality models show that there is an evidence of unidirectional short-run, long-run and strong causalities running from the electricity consumption per capita to real GDP per capita. But, there is no causal evidence from the real GDP per capita to electricity consumption per capita. In other words, \xe2\x80\x9cGrowth hypothesis\xe2\x80\x9d is confirmed in Turkey. This suggests that electricity consumption plays an important role in economic growth.'] ['This paper investigates the short-run and long-run causality issues between electricity consumption and economic growth in the selected 11 Middle East and North Africa (MENA) countries by using Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) bounds testing approach of cointegration and vector error-correction models. It employs annual data covering the period from 1971 to 2006. The unit root tests results indicate that some of the variables for Algeria, Jordan, Tunisia and United Arab Emirates do not satisfy the underlying assumptions of the ARDL bounds testing approach of cointegration methodology before proceeding to the estimation stage. Thus, we drop these countries from the ARDL bounds testing approach of cointegration and causality analysis. The cointegration test results show that there is no cointegration between the electricity consumption and the economic growth in three of the seven countries (Iran, Morocco and Syria). Thus, causal relationship cannot be estimated for these countries. However, the cointegration and causal relationship is found in four countries (Egypt, Israel, Oman and Saudi Arabia). The overall results indicate that there is no relationship between the electricity consumption and the economic growth in most of the MENA countries. Further evidence indicates that policies for energy conservation can have a little or no impact on economic growth in most of the MENA countries.'] ['This paper examines the causal relationship between energy consumption and economic growth for Turkey during 1971\xe2\x80\x932006. We employed two multivariate models, namely demand model and production model, based on vector error correction model. Then, we tested Granger causality after finding cointegration among variables for the both models. The results indicate that energy consumption and economic growth are cointegrated and there is bidirectional causality running from energy consumption to economic growth and vice versa. This means that an increase in energy consumption directly affects economic growth and that economic growth also stimulates further energy consumption. Consequently, we conclude that energy is a limiting factor to economic growth in Turkey and, hence, shocks to energy supply will have a negative impact on economic growth and vice versa.'] ['This paper provides a survey of the recent progress in the literature of energy consumption-economic growth and electricity consumption-economic growth causality nexus. The survey highlights that most empirical studies focus on either testing the role of energy (electricity) in stimulating economic growth or examining the direction of causality between these two variables. Although the positive role of energy on growth has become a stylized fact, there are some methodological reservations about the results from these empirical studies. A general observation from these studies is that the literature produced conflicting results and there is no consensus neither on the existence nor on the direction of causality between energy consumption (electricity consumption) and economic growth. As a policy implication, to avoid from conflicting and unreliable results, the authors may use the autoregressive distributed lags bounds test, two-regime threshold co-integration models, panel data approach and multivariate models including new variables (such as: real gross fixed capital formation, labor force, carbon dioxide emissions, population, exchange rates, interest rates, etc.). Thus, the authors should focus more on the new approaches and perspectives rather than by employing usual methods based on a set of common variables for different countries and different intervals of time.'] ['In this paper the Turkish export-led growth hypothesis is examined from the trade liberalisation process initiated in 1980. The paper has employed Toda and Yamamoto (1995) procedure for testing for Granger non-causality in the augmented vector autoregressive (VAR) methodology to analyze the dynamic relationship between export growth and economic growth in Turkey using quarterly data from 1989 to 2006. The empirical results support the export-led growth hypothesis for Turkey and that Granger causal flow is unidirectional from real exports to real GDP.'] [" This article examines sustainability of current account for Colombia, Peru, Venezuela, Mexico, Brazil and Argentina. Using the usual intertemporal borrowing constraint, we have tested for a long-run relationship between exports and imports plus net transfer payments and net interest payments. In our empirical analysis of the sustainability of current account, cointegration approaches have been used. Empirical results suggest that in the case of Peru, there exists a unique long run or equilibrium relationship among real exports and imports. In the case of Colombia, Venezuela, Mexico, Brazil and Argentina, cointegration results suggest that these countries' current accounts are not sustainable in the long run."] ['This paper investigates the long-run relationship and causality issues between electricity consumption and economic growth in 15 Transition countries (Albania, Belarus, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia, Moldova, Poland, Romania, Russian Federation, Serbia, Slovak Republic and Ukraine) by using the Pedroni panel cointegration method for the 1990-2006 period. Results suggest that the Pedroni panel cointegration tests do not confirm a long-term equilibrium relationship between electricity consumption per capita and real GDP per capita. Moreover, since no cointegration was found, error-correction mechanisms plus causality tests cannot be run for further steps in the long-term to investigate the causality between electricity consumption and economic growth. Overall, it can be said that the electricity consumption related policies have no effect or relation on the level of real output in the long run for these countries. As a conclusion, the literature has conflicting results and there is no consensus either on the existence or the direction of causality between electricity consumption and economic growth. Thus, the findings of this study have important policy implications and it shows that this issue still deserves further attention in future research.'] ['This paper uses the panel data of energy consumption (EC) and economic growth (GDP) for 51 countries from 1971 to 2005. These countries are divided into three groups: low income group, lower middle income group and upper middle income group countries. Firstly, a relationship between energy consumption and economic growth is investigated by employing Pedroni (1999) panel cointegration method. Secondly, panel causality test is applied to investigate the way of causality between the energy consumption and economic growth. Finally, we test whether there is a strong or weak relationship between these variables by using Pedroni (2001) method. The empirical results of this study are as follows: i) Energy consumption and GDP are cointegrated for all three income group countries. ii) The panel causality test results reveal that there is long-run Granger causality running from GDP to EC for low income countries and there is bidirectional causality between EC and GDP for middle income countries. iii) The estimated cointegration factor, [beta], is not close to 1. In other words, no strong relation is found between energy consumption and economic growth for all income groups considered in this study. The findings of this study have important policy implications and it shows that this issue still deserves further attention in future research.'] ['This paper examines the long run and causal relationship issues between economic growth, carbon emissions, energy consumption and employment ratio in Turkey by using autoregressive distributed lag bounds testing approach of cointegration. Empirical results for Turkey over the period 1968-2005 suggest an evidence of a long-run relationship between the variables at 5% significance level in Turkey. The estimated income elasticity of carbon emissions per capita is -0.606 and the income elasticity of energy consumption per capita is 1.375. Results for the existence and direction of Granger causality show that neither carbon emissions per capita nor energy consumption per capita cause real GDP per capita, but employment ratio causes real GDP per capita in the short run. In addition, EKC hypothesis at causal framework by using a linear logarithmic model is not valid in Turkish case. The overall results indicates that energy conservation policies, such as rationing energy consumption and controlling carbon dioxide emissions, are likely to have no adverse effect on the real output growth of Turkey.'] ['This study examines the validity of the purchasing power parity (PPP) in 8 transition countries for monthly data from 1992:1 to 2009:1. While results from both the ADF unit root and the KPSS unit root test indicate that PPP does not hold for Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Macedonia (FYR), Poland, Romania and Slovak Republic. In the presence of structural breaks, PPP holds only for Bulgaria and Romania it does not hold for the other 6 transition countries. Testing the stationarity of real exchange rate series by using four types of unit roots tests, the evidence suggests that real effective exchange rate is nonstationary and thus PPP doesn\xe2\x80\x99t hold for all 6 transition countries in the long run. All results emphasized that there is weak evidence about the long-run PPP hypothesis in transition countries and the validity of PPP remains a controversial and unsettled issue.'] ['The purpose of this study is to investigate the causal relationship between energy and economic growth in Albania, Bulgaria, Hungary and Romania from 1980 to 2006 by employing energy use per capita, electric power consumption per capita and real GDP per capita variables. To examine this linkage, we use the two-step procedure from the Engle and Granger model: In first step, we explore the long-run relationships between the variables by using recently developed autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) bounds testing approach of cointegration. Secondly, we employ a dynamic vector error correction (VEC) model to test causal relationships between variables. The bounds test yields evidence of a long-run relationship between energy use per capita and real GDP per capita and evidence of two-way (bidirectional) strong Granger causality between these variables only in Hungary. On the other hand, the ARDL bounds test results show that there is no a unique long-term or equilibrium relationship between energy consumption variables and real GDP per capita in Albania, Bulgaria and Romania. In other words, no cointegration exists between these variables in these three countries. The econometric analysis suggests that any causal relationships within dynamic error correction model for Albania, Bulgaria and Romania cannot be estimated.'] ['This study examines the causal relationship between carbon dioxide emissions, energy consumption, and economic growth by using autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) bounds testing approach of cointegration for nineteen European countries. The bounds F-test for cointegration test yields evidence of a long-run relationship between carbon emissions per capita, energy consumption per capita, real gross domestic product (GDP) per capita and the square of per capita real GDP only for Denmark, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Italy, Portugal and Switzerland. The cumulative sum and cumulative sum of squares tests also show that the estimated parameters are stable for the sample period.'] [': This paper estimates the aggregate import demand function for Latin American and Caribbean countries, using the dynamic panel data methods, over the period 1975-2005. Consistent with theoretical postulates, this paper finds that the demand for import responds negatively to an increase in the relative prices and positively to an increase in real income. The results imply that fiscal or monetary policies may be used as policy instruments to keep inflation at a reasonable rate so as to rectify any trade imbalances. In addition, for a sustainable trade balance, the development of more local industries should be encouraged to lower the import content.'] ['The aim of this paper is to examine effectiveness of devaluation on the trade balance in four countries: Argentina, Brazil, Mexico and Peru. We use the Johansen-Juselius cointegration test and impulse response function to estimate the long-run and short- run effects of devaluation on the trade balance. The estimated results suggest that depreciation improve the trade balance in the long run for the case of Argentina and Peru, and in the short-run there has been J-curve in Argentina and Peru. In addition, the cointegration is found among the four variables (trade balance, domestic income, foreign incomes and real exchange rate) in the case of Argentina and Peru. The results also indicate that there is no cointegration relationship between these variables for Brazil and Mexico. The conclusion of the paper is that the evidence of the J-curve pattern was found for Argentina and Peru only.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper examines the long-run determinants of the demand for money in ten transition countries using panel data for the 1994-2005 period. Using panel unit root tests we rejected the the null hypothesis of the nonstationarity and employed the feasible generalized least squares (FGLS) model. Consistent with theoretical postulates, it is found that (a) the demand for money in the long-run positively responds to real GDP and inversely to the inflation and the real effective exchange rate and (b) the long-run income elasticity is about unity.'] ['In this paper we review the literature on finance-growth nexus and investigate the causality between financial development and economic growth in Turkey for the period 1975-2004. The empirical investigation is carried out in a vector autoregression (VAR) framework based on the theory of cointegration and error-correction representation of cointegrated variables. The results of the cointegration analysis provide evidence of the existence of a long-run relationship between financial development and economic growth. The empirical findings in the paper show a two way causality (bidirectional) between financial development and economic growth.'] ['This paper investigates empirically the impact of FDI on economic growth of Turkey and Pakistan over the period of 1975-2004. To analyse the causal relationship between FDI and economic growth, the Engle-Granger cointegration and Granger causality tests are used. It is found that these two variables are cointegrated for both countries studied. Our empirical fi ndings suggest that it is GDP that causes FDI in the case of Pakistan, while there is strong evidence of a bi-directional causality between the two variables for Turkey.'] ['This paper reviews the literature dealing with the effects of FDI on Growth. Numerous empirical studies have been conducted to investigate whether growth is influenced by FDI. The overall evidence is best characterized as mixed as the results are regarding to the importance of labor costs, openness, investment climate, countries considered (developed vs developing) and fiscal incentives. However, free trade zones, trade regime, the human capital base in the host country, financial market regulations, banking system, infrastructure quality, tax incentives, market size, regional integration arrangements and economic/political stability are very important determinant for FDI that creates a positive impact on overall economic growth. In summary, consensus has been reached among academia and practitioners that FDI tends to have significant effect on economic growth through multiple channels such as capital formation, technology transfer and spillover, human capital (knowledge and skill) enhancement, and so on.'] ['This paper reviews the literature dealing with the effects of exchange rate volatility on trade. The overall evidence is best characterized as mixed as the results are sensitive to the choices of sample period, model specification, proxies for exchange rate volatility and countries considered (developed vs developing). Numerous empirical studies have been conducted to investigate whether trade is influenced by exchange rate volatility. It is widely believed that increased exchange rate volatility inhibits the growth of foreign trade.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The Cyprus problem became a subject that not only threatens the acceptance of Cyprus to the European Union but the whole enlargement process as well. Greece strongly supports the acceptance of Cyprus to the Union even without a solution to the Cyprus problem. On the other hand, other EU members and Turkey firmly reject this proposal. The study evaluates the application of South Cyprus to the European Union and the reasons for application. Although there are various possible economic gains for South Cyprus from EU membership, political gains go far beyond them and acceptance of Cyprus to the Union before a solution is reached for the Cyprus problem would bring many political benefits for South Cyprus in respect to its relations with Turkey.']