 ['Commercial health insurers in California use provider capitation payments to different extents. These are similar to arrangements introduced by the recent health reforms to give physicians incentives to control costs. In a previous paper we showed that patients whose insurers used capitation incentives traveled further to access lower-priced, similar-quality hospitals than other same-severity patients. This paper predicts the implied effects of a move to widespread capitation. We show that, if the introduction of capitation prompted low-capitation insurers to act like high-capitation insurers, this would generate a 4\xe2\x80\x935 percent cost saving with some reduction in patient convenience but no reduction in quality.'] [' We develop a framework for the analysis of dynamic oligopolies with persistant sources of asymmetric information that enables applied analysis of situations of empirical importance that have been difficult to deal with. The framework generates policies that are "relatively" easy for agents to use while still being optimal in a meaningful sense, and is amenable to empirical research in that its equilibrium conditions can be tested and equilibrium policies are relatively easy to compute. We conclude with an example that endogenizes the maintenance decisions of electricity generators when the costs states of the generators are private information. Copyright 2012, Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The US health reforms of March 2010 introduced new provisions for physicians providing Medicare and Medicaid services to be given financial incentives to control costs. Physician payment mechanisms generating similar incentives are currently used by some health maintenance organizations in California. We describe an ongoing research project in which we investigate physician responses to these payment schemes. The question is whether patients whose physicians have incentives to control hospital costs are admitted to lower-priced hospitals than other patients, all else equal. We provide an initial analysis of California hospital discharge data from 2003, documenting evidence consistent with this hypothesis.'] [' The CPI component indices are obtained from comparing price quotes at a given store in different periods. If we omit comparisons from goods in the store in the initial, but not in the comparison, period we generate a selection bias: goods that exit are disproportionately obsolete goods that have falling prices. Building on Pakes (2003), we explain why standard hedonic predictions for second-period prices of exiting goods do not account for this bias. New hedonic methods are derived, shown to have desirable properties, and are applied to three CPI samples where they generate significant selection corrections. (JEL C43, E31)'] ['Behavioral choice models generate inequalities which, when combined with additional assumptions, can be used as a basis for estimation. This paper considers two sets of such assumptions and uses them in two empirical examples. The second example examines the structure of payments resulting from the upstream interactions in a vertical market. We then mimic the empirical setting for this example in a numerical analysis which computes actual equilibria, examines how their characteristics vary with the market setting, and compares them to the empirical results. The final section uses the numerical results in a Monte Carlo analysis of the robustness of the two approaches to estimation to their underlying assumptions.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['We explore two complementary approaches to counterfactual analysis in an empirical ATM network example with multiple equilibria. First we simply enumerate and compare the possible equilibria. Second, we examine how different learning algorithms select among them.'] ["This paper considers the problem of estimating the distribution of payoffs in a discrete dynamic game, focusing on models where the goal is to learn about the distribution of firms' entry and exit costs. The idea is to begin with non parametric first stage etimates of entry and continuation values obtained by computing sample averages of the realized continuation values of entrants who do enter and incumbents who do continue. Under certain assumptions these values are linear functions of the parameters of the problem, and hence are not computationally burdensome to use. Attention is given to the small sample problem of estimation error in the non parametric estimates and this leads to a preference for use of particularly simple estimates of continuation values and moments.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' In this article, we consider a class of discrete choice models in which consumers care about a finite set of product characteristics. These models have been used extensively in the theoretical literature on product differentiation and the goal of this article is to translate them into a form that is useful for empirical work. Most recent econometric applications of discrete choice models implicitly let the dimension of the characteristic space increase with the number of products (they have "tastes for products"). The two models have different theoretical properties, and these, in turn, can have quite pronounced implications for both substitution patterns and for the welfare impacts of changes in the number and characteristics of the goods marketed. After developing those properties, we provide alternative algorithms for estimating the parameters of the pure characteristic model and compare their properties to those of the algorithm for estimating the model with tastes for products. We conclude with a series of Monte Carlo results. These are designed to illustrate: (i) the computational properties of the alternative algorithms for computing the pure characteristic model, and (ii) the differences in the implications of the pure characteristic model from the models with tastes for products. Copyright 2007 by the Economics Department Of The University Of Pennsylvania And Osaka University Institute Of Social And Economic Research Association.'] ['The paper begins by explaining the rational for the use of hedonic price indexes. It then reviews the problems that in the past have been associated with incorporating hedonics in the Consumer Price Index. The paper shows that many of those problems can now be overcome, though some care in choice of techniques used to implement the hedonic procedure is necessary. There are two important issues with hedonics that remain; that of sample attrition, and the fact that the index is designed as an upper bound to the required price adjustment (and hence may be overly generous). The paper shows that there is a very real sense in which both of these issues are likely to be more problematic for the more traditional matched model indices than for hedonics, and hence should not delay the role out of hedonics. Finally the paper provides suggestions for research to determine which commodity groups are likely to be most affected by attrition and the lack of tightness of the upper bound, and then considers ways to ameliorate these problems when they arise.'] ['In this paper, we consider how rich sources of information on consumer choice can help to identify demand parameters in a widely used class of differentiated products demand models. Most important, we show how to use "second-choice" data on automotive purchases to obtain good estimates of substitution patterns in the automobile industry. We use our estimates to make out-of-sample predictions about important recent changes in industry structure.'] [" We provide an asymptotic distribution theory for a class of generalized method of moments estimators that arise in the study of differentiated product markets when the number of observations is associated with the number of products within a given market. We allow for three sources of error: sampling error in estimating market shares, simulation error in approximating the shares predicted by the model, and the underlying model error. It is shown that the estimators are CAN provided the size of the consumer sample and the number of simulation draws grow at a large enough rate relative to the number of products. We consider the implications of the results for the Berry, Levinsohn and Pakes (1995) random coefficient logit model and the pure characteristics model analysed in Berry and Pakes (2002) . The required rates differ for these two frequently used demand models. A small Monte Carlo study shows that the differences in asymptotic properties of the two models are reflected, in quite a striking way, in the models' small sample properties. Moreover the limit distributions provide a good approximation to the actual Monte Carlo distribution of the parameter estimates. The results have important implications for the computational burden of the two models. Copyright 2004 The Review of Economic Studies Ltd."] ["This paper compares hedonic to matched model indexes. Matched model indexes are averages of the price changes of goods that remain on sampled stores' shelves. Since goods that disappear tend to have falling market values, matched model indexes select from the right tail of price changes. The BLS can construct hedonic indexes that correct for this selection and are justified by standard arguments. In an empirical study of PC's hedonics produce sharp price declines while matched model indexes are near zero. Also, though there are modifications to hedonics that seem desirable, they are not those in current use."] [' This paper is a revised version of a keynote address delivered at the inauguralInternational Industrial Organization Conference in Boston, April 2003. I arguethat new econometric tools have facilitated the estimation of models with realistictheoretical underpinnings, and because of this, have made empirical I.O. muchmore useful. The tools solve computational problems thereby allowing us to makethe relationship between the economic model and the estimating equations transparent.This, in turn, enables us to utilize the available data more effectively. It also facilitatesrobustness analysis and clarifies the assumptions needed to analyze the causes of pastevents and/or make predictions of the likely impacts of future policy or environmentalchanges. The paper provides examples illustrating the value of simulation for theestimation of demand systems and of semiparametrics for the estimation of entry models. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 2003'] [" This paper introduces a stochastic algorithm for computing symmetric Markov perfect equilibria. The algorithm computes equilibrium policy and value functions, and generates a transition kernel for the (stochastic) evolution of the state of the system. It has two features that together imply that it need not be subject to the curse of dimensionality. First, the integral that determines continuation values is never calculated; rather it is approximated by a simple average of returns from past outcomes of the algorithm, an approximation whose computational burden is not tied to the dimension of the state space. Second, iterations of the algorithm update value and policy functions at a single (rather than at all possible) points in the state space. Random draws from a distribution set by the updated policies determine the location of the next iteration's updates. This selection only repeatedly hits the recurrent class of points, a subset whose cardinality is not directly tied to that of the state space. Numerical results for industrial organization problems show that our algorithm can increase speed and decrease memory requirements by several orders of magnitude."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We provide a collusive framework with heterogeneity among firms, investment, entry, and exit. It is a symmetric-information model in which it is hard to sustain collusion when there is an active firm that is likely to exit in the near future. Numerical analysis is used to compare a collusive to a noncollusive environment. Only the collusive industry generates price wars. Also, the collusive industry offers both more and higher-quality products to consumers, albeit often at a higher price. The positive effect of collusion on variety and quality more than compensates for the negative effect of collusive prices, so that consumer surplus is larger with collusion.'] ['The authors evaluate the voluntary export restraint that was initially placed on exports of automobiles from Japan in 1981. They evaluate the impact this policy had on U.S. consumer welfare, firm profits, and foregone tariff revenue from its initiation through 1990.'] ['This paper considers two models for analyzing the dynamics of firm behavior that allow for heterogeneity among firms, idiosyncratic (or firm specific) sources of uncertainty, and discrete outcomes (exit and/or entry). Models with these characteristics are needed for the structural econometric analysis of several economic phenomena, including the behavior of capital markets when there are significant failure probabilities, and the analysis of productivity movements in industries with large amounts of entry and exit. In addition, these models provide a means of correcting for the self-section induced by liquidation decisions in empirical studies of firms responses to alternative policy and environmental changes. It is shown that the two models have different nonparametric implications - implications that depend only on basic behavioral assumptions and mild regularity conditions on the functional forms of interest (one distinction between them corresponds to the distinction between heterogeneity and an ergodic form of state-dependence; a form in which the effect of being in a state in a particular period erodes away as time from that period lapses). The nonparametric implications enable the construction of testing and selection correction procedures that are easy to implement (they do not require the computationally difficult, and functional-form specific, estimation algorithms that have been used to empirically analyze stochastic control models with discrete outcomes in the past). The paper concludes by checking for the implications of the two models on an eight-year panel of Wisconsin firms. We find one model to be consistent with the data for retail trade.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Patent counts are very imperfect measures of innovative output. This paper discusses how additional data--the number of years a patent is renewed and the number of countries in which protection for the same invention is sought--can be used to improve on counts in studies that require a measure of the extent of innovation. Simple weighting schemes are proposed, which may remove half of the noise in patent counts as a measure of innovative output. The authors describe models of the patent application and renewal processes whose parameter estimates can be used to assess the value of the proprietary rights created by the patent laws. The authors illustrate their use with estimates of how the value of patent protection would vary under alternative legal rules and renewal fees and with estimates of the international flows of returns from the patent system. Recent progress in the development of databases has increased the potential for this type of analysis. Copyright 1998 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Technological change and deregulation have caused a major restructuring telecommunications equipment industry over the last two decades. Our empirical focus is on estimating the parameters of a production function for the equipment industry, and then using those estimates to analyze the evolution of plant-level productivity. The restructuring involved significant entry and exit and large changes in the sizes of incumbents. This generates a selection and a simultaneity problem when estimating production functions. Our theoretical focus is on providing an estimation algorithm which takes explicit account of these issues. We find that our algorithm produces markedly different estimates of production function coefficients than do traditional estimation procedures, and that the productivity increases that followed deregulation were primarily a result of a reallocation of capital towards more productive establishments. Copyright 1996 by The Econometric Society.'] ['We consider an econometric model based on a set of moment conditions which are indexed by both a finite dimensional parameter vector of interest, and an infinite dimensional parameter, h, which in turn depends upon both and another infinite dimensional parameter, tau. The model assumes that the moment conditions equal zero at the true value of all unknown parameters. Estimators of are obtained by forming nonparametric estimates of h and tau, substituting them into the sample analog of the moment conditions, and choosing that value of that makes the sample moments as "close as possible" to zero. Using independence and smoothness assumptions the paper provides consistency, root{n} consistency, and asymptotic normality proofs for the resultant estimator. As an example, we consider Olley and Pakes\' (1991) use of semiparametric techniques to control for both simultaneity and selection biases in estimating production functions. This example illustrates how semiparametric techniques can be used to overcome both computational problems, and the need for strong functional form restrictions, in obtaining estimates from structural models. We also provide two additional sets of empirical results for this example. First we compare the estimators of theta obtained using different estimators for the nonparametric components of the problem, and then we compare alternative estimators for the estimated standard errors of those estimators.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper provides a model of firm and industry dynamics that allows for entry, exit, and firm-specific uncertainty generating variability in the fortunes of firms. It focuses on the impact of uncertainty arising from investment in research and exploration. It analyzes the behavior of individual firms in an evolving market place and derives optimal policies, including exit. Then it adds an entry process and aggregates the optimal behavior of all firms, including potential entrants, into a rational expectations Markov-perfect industry equilibrium and proves ergodicity of the equilibrium process. Numerical examples illustrate the detailed characteristics of the stochastic process generating industry structures. Copyright 1995 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] [" This paper develops techniques for empirically analyzing demand and supply in differentiated product markets and then applies these techniques to the U.S. automobile industry. The authors' framework enables one to obtain estimates of demand and cost parameters for a class of oligopolistic differentiated products markets. These estimates can be obtained using only widely available product-level and aggregate consumer-level data, and they are consistent with a structural model of equilibrium in an oligopolistic industry. Applying these techniques, the authors obtain parameters for essentially all autos sold over a twenty-year period. Copyright 1995 by The Econometric Society."] [' In this article we develop and illustrate a simple algorithm for computing Markov-perfect Nash equilibria. The advantage of the Markov-perfect framework is that it is flexible enough to reproduce important aspects of reality in a variety of market settings. As a result, we hope that our article and (perhaps improved) versions of the associated algorithms will eventually be a part of a tool kit that allows researchers to go back and forth between the implications of economic theory and the characteristics of alternative datasets.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' A general central limit theorem is proved for estimators defined by minimization of the length of a vector-valued, random criterion function. No smoothness assumptions are imposed on the criterion function in order that the results might apply to a broad class of simulation estimators. Complete analyses of two simulation estimators, one introduced by A. Pakes (1986) and the other by D. McFadden (1989), illustrate the application of the general theorems. These examples illustrate how simulation can be used to circumvent two computational problems that arise frequently in applied econometrics: evaluating intractable aggregation formulae and evaluating discrete response probabilities. Copyright 1989 by The Econometric Society.'] ['In neoclassical models of consumption choice under earnings uncertainty changes in consumption programs from one period to the next are determined by new information received about future earnings over the period. This proposition suggests that actual consumption choices imbed extractable information about the extent and time resolution of earnings uncertainty. The primary goal of this paper is to demonstrate how one can infer the extent of earnings uncertainty from information on consumption choices. We obtain a theoretical relationship between the revision in the present expected value of consumption (noise) and the revision in the expectation of lifetime earnings (news) that can be used to measure subjective earnings uncertainty.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper examines the distribution of the values of patent rights in the United Kingdom, France, and Germany during the post-1950 period. These values are inferred from the behavior of patentees with respect to payment of renewal fees on their patents. A simple economic model of renewal decisions is combined with data on the proportion of patents renewed at alternative ages and the renewal fee schedules to produce estimates of the distribution (and the total) value of patent rights in these countries. Moreover, the data indicate that there have been changes in the value distribution, and we follow these changes over the period. The empirical results of particular interest concern: the total value of patent rights and the relationship between changes in it and changes in the quantity of patents, the skew in the distribution of patent values, and the rate of obsolescence on the returns to patents.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["In many countries holders of patents must pay an annual renewal fee in order to keep their patents in force. This paper uses data on the proportion of patents renewed, and the renewal fees faced by, post World War II cohorts of patents in France, the United Kingdom, and Germany, in conjunction with a model of patent holders' renewal decisions, to estimate the returns earned from holding patents in these countries. Since patents are often applied for at a nearly stage in the innovation process, the model allows agents to be uncertain about the sequence of returns that will be earned if the patent is kept inforce. Formally, then, the paper presents and solves a discrete choice optimal stochastic control model, derives the implications of the model on aggregate behaviour, and then estimates the parameters of the model from aggregate data. The estimates enable a detailed description of the evolution of the distribution of returns earned from holding patents over their life spans,and calculations of both; the annual returns earned from holding the patents still in force (or the patent stocks) in the alternative countries, and the distribution of the discounted value of returns earned from holding the patents in a cohort.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["[fre] Cette \xc3\xa9tude est une tentative pour estimer le taux d'obsolescence des revenus rapport\xc3\xa9s par un brevet, ainsi que la distribution de ces revenus. Les estimations sont fond\xc3\xa9es sur un mod\xc3\xa8le simple de renouvellement des brevets et sur deux ensembles de donn\xc3\xa9es :. le premier pour quatre pays europ\xc3\xa9ens sur les ann\xc3\xa9es 1930-1939, le second plus d\xc3\xa9taill\xc3\xa9 pour la France entre 1950 et 1979. On trouve principalement que le taux d'obsolescence des brevets est tr\xc3\xa8s \xc3\xa9lev\xc3\xa9, aussi bien avant-qu'apr\xc3\xa8s-guerre, et que la valeur \xc3\xa9conomique des brevets a une distribution tr\xc3\xa8s asym\xc3\xa9trique, la plupart des brevets n'ayant qu'une valeur \xc3\xa9conomique tr\xc3\xa8s faible. Les statistiques de renouvellement des brevets apparaissent ainsi comme une source d'information int\xc3\xa9ressante sur la distribution de leurs valeurs, pouvant permettre notamment des comparaisons entre pays et secteurs, et entre diff\xc3\xa9rentes p\xc3\xa9riodes. [eng] The rate of obsolescence and the distribution. Of patent values : some evidence from european patent. Renewals. Mark Schankerman, Ariel Pakes. This paper presents econometric estimates of the rate of obsolescence and the distribution of the private value of holding patents. The estimates are derived by combining information on patent renewals and renewal fees in Europeen countries with a simple economic model of the renewal decision of patent holders. The model is applied to two sets of data the first covering four European countries during the period 1930-1939, and the second including all patent applications mode in France during 1950-1979. Two principal empirical findings emerge. First, the private rate of obsolescence is high, both from the prewar and the post-war data. Second, the distribution of the value of holding patents is sharply skewed to the right. More broadly, the results suggest the potential use of patent renewal data for measuring the value of patent rights in different sectors and countries and over time."] ["Empirical work on the causes and effects of inventive activity has had difficulty in finding measures that can indicate when and where changes in either inventive inputs or inventive output have occurred. The recent computerization of the U.S. Patent Office's data base may prove helpful in this context, but there is the problem that a priori we do not know the relationships between patent applications and economically meaningful measures of these inputs and outputs. To help solve this problem, this paper investigates the dynamic relationships among the number of successful patent applications of firms, a measure of the firm's investment in inventive activity (its R &amp; D expenditures), and an indicator of its inventive output (the stock market value of the firm).<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['In this paper, we investigate the problem of estimating distributed lags in short panels. Estimates of the parameter of distributed lag relationships based on single time-series of observations have been usually rather imprecise. The promise of panel data is in the N repetitions of the time-series that it contains which should allow one to estimate the identified lag parameters with greater precision. On the other hand, panels tend to track their observations only over a relatively short time interval. Thus, some assumptions will have to be made on the contribution of the unobserved presample x\'s to the current values of y before any lag parameters can be identified from such data. In this paper we suggest two such assumptions; both of which are, at least in part, testable, and outline appropriate estimation techniques. The first places reasonable restrictions on the relationship between the presample and in sample x\'s while the second imposes conventional functional form constraints on the lag coefficients. The paper concludes with an example which investigates empirically how to construct a "capital stock" for profit or rate of return regressions.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper considers the problem of hiring scientists for research and development projects when one takes explicit account of the fact that the scientist may be able to use the information acquired during the project in a rival enterprise. Management's problem is to determine an optimum labor policy for its project. The policy consists of an employment decision and a labor contract. Given optimum behavior, it is straightforward to analyze the effect of the potential for mobility of scientific personnel on project profitability and on research employment. We also formalize conditions under which one would expect to observe a scientist leaving his employer to set up or join a rival.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']