 [' This paper studies how the risk of divorce affects the human capital decisions of a young couple. We consider a setting where complete specialization is optimal with no divorce risk. Couples can self-insure through savings which offers some protection to the uneducated spouse, but at the expense of a distortion. Alternatively, for large divorce probabilities, symmetry in education, where both spouses receive an equal amount of education, may be optimal. This eliminates the risk associated with the lack of education, but reduces the efficiency of education choices. We show that the symmetric allocation will become more attractive as the probability of divorce increases, if risk aversion is high and/or labor supply elasticity is low. However, it is only a \xe2\x80\x9csecond-best\xe2\x80\x9d solution as insurance protection is achieved at the expense of an efficiency loss. Finally, we study how the (economic) use of marriage is affected by the possibility of divorce. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015'] [' Parenthood postponement is a key demographic trend of the last three decades. In order to rationalize that stylized fact, we extend the canonical model by Barro and Becker (Econometrica 57:481\xe2\x80\x93501, 1989 ) to include two\xe2\x80\x94instead of one\xe2\x80\x94reproduction periods. We examine how the cost structure of early and late children in terms of time and goods affects the optimal fertility timing. Then, we identify conditions that guarantee the existence and uniqueness of a stationary equilibrium with a stationary cohort size. Finally, we examine how the model can rationalize the observed postponement of births, and we highlight two plausible causes: (1) a general rise in the cost of children in terms of goods and (2) a decline in the degree of family altruism. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015'] ['This letter analyzes the impact of economic integration on capital accumulation and capital flows when countries differ in their social security systems. Funding and early retirement both foster capital accumulation relative to pay-as-you-go pensions with flexible retirement. When economies integrate, both imply capital outflow possibly resulting in utility losses.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The world\xe2\x80\x99s aging population is expected to shape the future of economies across the globe. Without behavioral adaptation by current and future generations, this demographic transformation is likely to slow down economic growth. However, aging will also induce behavioral adjustments in savings and labor force participation. Will these adjustments be large enough to reverse the negative effects of demographic change? The answer depends on a number of conditions. This note suggests that determining whether aging is driven by an increase in longevity or by a decrease in fertility is important for understanding the size and direction of these demographic effects. Moreover, the type of unfunded social security system that exists in the economy could also influence the net effect of aging.'] [' We explore the optimal fertility timing in a four-period OLG economy with physical capital, whose specificity is to include not one, but two reproduction periods. It is shown that, for a given total fertility rate, the economy exhibits quite different dynamics, depending on the timing of births. If all births take place in the late reproduction period, there exists no stable stationary equilibrium and the economy exhibits cyclical dynamics due to labor growth fluctuations. We characterize the long-run social optimum and show that optimal consumptions and capital depend on the optimal cohort growth factor, so that there is no one-to-one substitutability between early and late fertility. We also extend Samuelson\xe2\x80\x99s Serendipity Theorem to our economy and study the robustness of our results to: (1) endogenizing fertility timing, (2) assuming rational anticipations about factor prices, (3) adding a third reproduction period. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014'] [' We study the role of social long-term care (LTC) insurance when income taxation and private insurance markets are imperfect. Policy instruments include public provision of LTC as well as a subsidy on private insurance. The subsidy scheme may be linear or nonlinear. For the linear part we consider an arbitrary number of types, characterized by earnings and survival probabilities. In the nonlinear part, society consists of three types: poor, middle class and rich. The first type is too poor to provide for dependence; the middle class type purchases private insurance and the high income type is self-insured. The main questions are at what level LTC should be provided to the poor and whether it is desirable to subsidize private LTC for the middle class. Interestingly, the results are not totally similar under both linear and nonlinear schemes. First, whereas in the linear case a subsidy of private LTC insurance is desirable, it is not in the nonlinear case (at least at the margin). Second, the desirability of public provision of LTC services depends on the way the income tax is restricted. In the linear case, it may be desirable only if no demogrant (uniform lump-sum transfer) is available. In the nonlinear case, public provision is desirable when the income tax is sufficiently restricted. Specifically, this is the case when the income is subject only to a proportional payroll tax while the LTC reimbursement policy can be nonlinear. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper shows how the role of the market, the state and the family in providing oldage support has evolved over time with changes in factors such as the reliability and the effectiveness of family support, the interest rate, the cost of public funds, and earning inequality. Agents with different productivity vote over the size of a Beveridgian pension system. When children assistance is certain, agents may rely exclusively on family and prefer no pension. However, when the size and the probability of family generosity decrease, social security is more likely to emerge.'] [' Under income-differentiated mortality, poverty measures reflect not only the \xe2\x80\x9ctrue\xe2\x80\x9d poverty, but, also, the interferences or noise caused by the survival process at work. Such interferences lead to the Mortality Paradox: the worse the survival conditions of the poor are, the lower the measured poverty is. We examine several solutions to avoid that paradox. We identify conditions under which the extension, by means of a fictitious income, of lifetime income profiles of the prematurely dead neutralizes the noise due to differential mortality. Then, to account not only for the \xe2\x80\x9cmissing\xe2\x80\x9d poor, but, also, for the \xe2\x80\x9chidden\xe2\x80\x9d poverty (premature death), we use, as a fictitious income, the welfare-neutral income, making indifferent between life continuation and death. The robustness of poverty measures to the extension technique is illustrated with regional Belgian data. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2013'] ['This paper explains why workers retire earlier, and earlier at the same time as society becomes more and more indebted through increasing pay-as-you-go pension liabilities. To do so, we extend the standard twooverlapping-generations growth model to allow for endogenous labor participation in the later period of life. We show that the rate of participation declines as the size of social security system increases. We also show that mandatory early retirement many be socially desirable in case of underaccumulation.'] ['Although the optimal public policy under an endogenous number of children has been widely studied, the optimal public intervention under an endogenous timing of births has remained largely unexplored. This paper examines the optimal family policy when the timing of births is chosen by individuals who differ as to how early fertility weakens future earnings. We analyze the design of a policy of family allowances and of public pensions in such a setting, under distinct informational environments. Endogenous childbearing ages is shown to affect the optimal policy through the redistribution across the earnings dimension and the internalization of fertility externalities. Contrary to common practice, children benefits differentiated according to the age of parents can be part of the optimal family policy. Our results are robust to introducing: (i) children as durable \xe2\x80\x9cgoods\xe2\x80\x9d; (ii) education choices; (iii) varying total fertility.'] ['Abstract: Long-term care (LTC) is mainly provided by the family and subsidiarily by the market and the government. To understand the role of these three institutions, it is important to understand the motives and the working of family solidarity. In this paper, we focus on the case when LTC is provided by children to their dependent parents out of some norm that has been inculcated to them during their childhood by some exemplary behavior of their parents towards their own parents. In the first part, we look at the interaction between the family and the market in providing for LTC. The key parameters are the probability of dependence, the probability of having a norm-abiding child and the loading factor. In the second part, we introduce the government which has a double mission: correct for a prevailing externality and redistribute resources across heterogeneous households.'] ['This paper studies public provision of long-term care insurance in a world in which family assistance is (i) uncertain and (ii) endogenous, depending on the time parents spend raising their children. Public benefits will be paid in case of disability but cannot be combined with self-insurance or family aid. The benefits are provided equally to all recipients and financed by a proportional payroll tax. The paper shows that tax distortions imply that full insurance is undesirable. It characterizes the optimal tax and identifies the elements that determine its size. Of crucial importance are the extent of under-insurance, the effect of the tax on the probability of altruism, the distortionary effect of the tax, and, with wage heterogeneity, the covariance between the social marginal utility of lifetime income and (i) earnings (positive effect) and (ii) the probability of altruism default (negative effect).'] ['When accidental bequests signal otherwise unobservable individual characteristics such as productivity and longevity, the tax administration should partition the population into two groups: One consisting of people who do not receive an inheritance and the other of those who do. The first tagged group gets a second-best tax \xc3\xa0 la Mirrlees; the second group a first-best tax schedule. The solution implies that receiving an inheritance makes high-ability types worse off and low-ability types better off. High-ability individuals will necessarily face a bequest tax of more than 100%, while low-ability types face a bequest tax that can be smaller as well as larger than 100%. With a Rawlsian social welfare function, the low-ability types too face a more than 100% tax on bequests.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper studies the optimal non linear income tax of couples. We build a general unitary model of labor supply and allow multidimensional heterogeneity in a discrete type framework. We concentrate our analysis on the resulting intra-family labor allocation of labor supplies and show that this analysis is strongly related to the choice of the tax unit (individual versus joint taxation). We give a necessary condition to have fully joint taxation in this framework and discuss some examples.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['We explain why wealthy people often favor estate taxation, while wealthless people oppose it. Wealthy people devote part of their estate to charities. Estate taxation with tax breaks for charities increases contributions to an otherwise underprovided public good.'] ['Introduced by Samuelson (1975), the Serendipity Theorem states that the competitive economy will converge towards the optimum steady-state provided the optimum population growth rate is imposed. This paper aims at exploring whether the Serendipity Theorem still holds in an economy with risky lifetime. We show that, under general conditions, including a perfect annuity market with actuarially fair return, imposing the optimum fertility rate and the optimum survival rate leads the competitive economy to the optimum steady-state. That Extended Serendipity Theorem is also shown to hold in economies where old adults work some fraction of the old-age, whatever the retirement age is fixed or chosen by the agents.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['One of the greatest success stories in our societies is that people are living longer, life expectancy at birth being now above 80 years. Whereas the lengthening of life opens huge opportunities for individuals if extra years are spent in prosperity and good health, it is however often regarded as a source of problems for policy-makers. The goal of this paper is to examine the key policy challenges raised by increasing longevity. For that purpose, we first pay attention to the representation of individual preferences, and to the normative foundations of the economy, and, then, we consider the challenges raised for the design of the social security system, pension policies, preventive health policies, the provisi\xc3\xb3n of long term care, as well as for long-run economic growth.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We consider a two-period model. In the first period, individuals consume two goods: one is sinful and the other is not. The sin good brings pleasure but has a detrimental effect on second period health and individuals tend to underestimate this effect. In the second period, individuals can devote part of their saving to improve their health status and thus compensate for the damage caused by their sinful consumption. We consider two alternative specifications concerning this second period health care decision: either individuals acknowledge that they have made a mistake in the first period out of myopia or ignorance, or they persist in ignoring the detrimental effect of their sinful consumption. We study the optimal linear taxes on sin good consumption, saving and health care expenditures for a paternalistic social planner. We compare those taxes in the two specifications. We show under which circumstances the first best outcome can be decentralized and we study the second best taxes when saving is unobservable.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Derived pension rights (including survivor benefits and spousal compensations for one-earner couples) exist in most Social Security systems but with variable generosity. They are mainly viewed as a means to alleviate poverty among older women living alone. The purpose of this paper is to explain how they can emerge from a political economy process when Social Security is a combination of Bismarckian and Beveridgean pillars. We find that the pension system should be contributive but with a positive level of derived rights. We also show that such a system encourages stay-at-home wives, thus revealing an unpleasant trade-off between female labor participation and poverty alleviation. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2012'] ['When educational policy is supplemented by a redistributive income tax, and when individualsdiffer in their ability to benefit from education, the optimal policy is typically rather regressive.Resources are concentrated on the most able individuals in order to get a "cake" as big aspossible to share among individuals through income taxation. In this paper we put forwardanother reason to push for regressive education. It is not linked to heterogeneity in innate ability to benefit from education but to pervasive non-convexities that arise in the optimal income tax problem when individual productivities are endogenous. For simplicity we assume a lineareducation technology and a given total education budget. To give the equal wage outcome thebest chance to emerge, we also assume that individuals have identical learning abilities.Nevertheless, it turns out that in the first-best wage inequality is always preferable to wageequality. Even more surprisingly, this conclusion remains valid in the second-best (unless adhoc restriction on the feasible degree of a wage differentiation are imposed). This is in spite ofthe fact that wage equalization would eliminate any need for distortionary income taxation.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper reviews a number of recent contributions that study pension design with myopic individuals. Its objective is to explore how the presence of more or less myopic individuals affects pension design when individuals differ also in productivity. This double heterogeneity gives rise to an interesting interplay between paternalistic and redistributive considerations, which is at the heart of most of the results that are presented. The main part of the paper is devoted to the issue of pension design when myopic individual do not save "enough" for their retirement because their "myopic self" (with a high discount rate) emerges when labor supply and savings decisions are made. Some extensions and variations are considered in the second part. In particular we deal with situations where labor disutility or preferences for consumption are subject to "habit formation" and where sin goods have a detrimental effect on second period health. Myopic individuals tend to underestimate the effects of both habit formation and sinful consumption, which complicates public policy.'] [' This article surveys the theoretical literature on wealth transfer taxation. The focus is normative: we are looking at the design of an optimal tax structure from the standpoint of both equity and efficiency. The gist of this survey is that the optimal design crucially depends on the assumed bequest motives. Alternative bequest motives are thus analyzed either in isolation or combined. (JEL codes: H21, H23, H24, E6, D64) Copyright The Author 2011. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Ifo Institute for Economic Research, Munich. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com, Oxford University Press.'] ['ResumenEste art\xc3\xadculo examina el impacto sobre la pobreza y el costo fiscal de una pensi\xc3\xb3n m\xc3\xadnima universalpara la poblaci\xc3\xb3n anciana en Latinoamerica usando datos de encuesta de hogares en 18 pa\xc3\xadses. La asistencia a la pobreza de la poblaci\xc3\xb3n anciana necesita de una aproximaci\xc3\xb3n diferente a la de otros grupos de edad y la pensi\xc3\xb3n m\xc3\xadnima puede ser una opci\xc3\xb3n alternativa viable. En primer lugar se mide la tasa de pobreza en la poblaci\xc3\xb3n de ancianos. En segundo lugar se discute el dise\xc3\xb1o de un esquema de pensi\xc3\xb3n m\xc3\xadnima, con y sin eligibilidad de la asistencia, asi como el efecto desincentivo que se espera sobre el comportamiento social y econ\xc3\xb3mico de las familias, incluyendo la oferta laboral ahorros y solidaridad familiar. Tercero, se utilizan las encuestas de hogares para simular el costo fiscal y el impacto sobre las tasas de probreza de un esquema de pensi\xc3\xb3n m\xc3\xadnima en los 18 pa\xc3\xadses. El art\xc3\xadculo muestra que una pensi\xc3\xb3n m\xc3\xadnima universal reducir\xc3\xada ampliamente la pobreza en la poblaci\xc3\xb3n anciana, excepto en Argentina, Brazil, Chile y Uruguay, en donde la pensi\xc3\xb3n m\xc3\xadnima ya existe y las tasas de pobreza son bajas. Este tipo de esquemas generan varios comentarios en relaci\xc3\xb3n con los incentivos, los efectos de dispersi\xc3\xb3n y simplicidad adminsitrativa, pero tienen altos costos fiscales. Los costos fiscales son funci\xc3\xb3n de la edad en la cual los beneficios son asignados, la alta longevidad, la generosidad de los beneficios, la eficacia del mecanismo de eligibilidad y la capacidad fiscal del pa\xc3\xads.Abstract:This paper examines the impact on old age poverty and the fiscal cost of universal minimum oldage pensions in Latin America using recent household survey data for 18 countries. Alleviatingold age poverty requires different approach from other age groups and a minimum pension is likely to be the only alternative available. First we measure old age poverty rates for all countries. Second we discuss the design of minimum pensions schemes, means-tested or not, as well as the disincentive effects that they are expected to have on the economic and social behavior of households including labor supply, saving and family solidarity. Third we use the household surveys to simulate the fiscal cost and the impact on poverty rates of alternative minimum pension schemes in the 18 countries. We show that a universal minimum pension would substantially reduce poverty among the elderly except in Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Uruguay where minimum pension systems already exist and poverty rates are low. Such schemes have much to be commended in terms of incentives, spillover effects and administrative simplicity but have a high fiscal cost. The latter is a function of the age at which benefits are awarded, the prevailing longevity, the generosity of benefits, the efficacy of means testing, and naturally the fiscal capacity of the country.'] ['We develop a model in which workers tend to work too much when young because they can not or do not want to see the consequences on their health and on their capacity to work for a longer period. To force them to better distribute their work efforts over'] ['Existing political economy models of pensions focus on age and productivity. In this paper we incorporate two additional individual characteristics: sex and marital status. We ignore the role of age, by assuming that people vote at the start of their life, and characterize the preferred rate of taxation that finances a Beveridgean pension scheme when individuals differ in wage, sex and marital status. We allow for two types of couples: one-breadwinner and two-breadwinner couples. Marriage pools both wage and longevity differences between men and women. Hence singles tend to have more extreme preferred tax rates than couples. We show that the majority voting outcome depends on the relative number of one-breadwinner couples and on the size of derived pension rights.'] ["This paper provides a unified treatment of externalities associated with fertility and human capital accumulation within pay-as-you-go pension systems. It considers an overlapping generations model in which every generation consists of high earners and low earners with the proportion of types being determined endogenously. The number of children is deterministically chosen but the children's future ability is in part stochastic, in part determined by the family background, and in part through education. In addition to the customary externality source associated with a change in average fertility rate, this setup highlights another externality source. This is due to the effect of a parent's choice of number and educational attainment of his children on the proportion of high-ability individuals in the steady state. Our other results include: (i) Investments in education of high- and low-ability parents must be subsidized; (ii) direct child subsidies to one or both parent types can be negative; i.e., they can be taxes; (iii) net subsidies to children (direct child subsidies plus education subsidies) to at least one type of parents must be positive; (iv) parents who have a higher number of children should invest less in their education."] [' This article models a two-period overlapping generations economy in the steady state where the realization of the quantity-quality number of children depends on an initial investment in children and on a random shock. It shows that the implementation of the first-best allocation, in which the effort level is publicly observable, requires a subsidy on the investment in children. There should also be full insurance with respect to second-period consumption and pensions must be invariant to the number of children. On the other hand, when investment is unobservable and one cannot subsidize it, the full insurance property goes away. In this case, pensions must be linked positively to the number of children. (JEL codes: H55, J13) Copyright The Author 2011. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Ifo Institute for Economic Research, Munich. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com, Oxford University Press.'] ["This paper studies the optimal linear tax-transfer policy in an economy where agents differ in productivity and in genetic background, and where longevity depends on health spending and genes. It is shown that, if agents internalize imperfectly the impact of genes and health spending on longevity, the utilitarian social optimum can be decentralized with type-specific redistributive lump sum transfers and Pigouvian taxes correcting for agents's myopia (leading to undersaving and underinvestment in health), and for their incapacity to perceive the effect of health spending on the resource constraint of the economy (causing overinvestment in health). The second-best problem is also examined under linear taxation instruments. Our main result is that it may be optimal to tax health spending, in particular under a complementarity of genes and health spending in the production of longevity.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['Abstract This paper applies the analytical tools of optimal taxation theory to the design of the optimal subsidy on preventive behaviours, in an economy where longevity varies across agents, and depends on preventive expenditures and on longevity genes. Public intervention can be here justified on three grounds: corrections for misperceptions of the survival process and for externalities related to individual preventive behaviour, and redistribution across both earnings and genetic dimensions. The optimal subsidy on preventive expenditures is shown to depend on the combined impacts of misperception, externalities and self-selection. It is generally optimal to subsidize preventive efforts to an extent depending on the degree of individual myopia, on how productivity and genes are correlated, and on the complementarity of genes and preventive efforts in the survival function.'] ['This paper aims at illustrating, in the case of Belgian regions, a specific problem faced by poverty measures. Since mortality is related to the level of income ? poor persons tend to die, on average, at younger ages than non-poor persons ? poverty measures for the elderly depend not only on what one can call the ?true poverty?, but, also, on the selection induced by differential mortality due to income inequality. By computing the hypothetical poverty rates that would prevail if all persons (of all income levels) had the same life expectancy, we estimate new poverty measures, which, by construction, neutralize the interference or the noise due to income-based differential mortality. Such an adjustment of poverty measures is particularly relevant for the case of Belgium, where mortality gaps between Flemish and Walloon, as well as between rich and poor, are sizeable. JEL code: I32'] [' The motivation for this symposium was the view that the problems of taxation of the family are very important, indeed central, for income tax policy, but are relatively neglected in theoretical public economics. We hope that this collection will stimulate interest and further work in this area. In this Introduction, rather than summarizing the collected papers (several of which are already in the nature of survey papers), we provide a historical background to the literature on what we see as the three central themes of family tax policy: the taxation of two-earner couples, the tax treatment of children, and the issues raised by the taxation of bequests. (JEL codes: D13, D64, D78, D82, E6, H21, H23, H24, H31, J12, J13, J16). Copyright The Author 2011. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Ifo Institute for Economic Research, Munich. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com, Oxford University Press.'] [' In this article, we use data on five social inclusion indicators (poverty, inequality, unemployment, education and health) to assess and compare the performance of 15 European welfare states (EU15) over a 12-year period from 1995 to 2006. Aggregate measures of performance are obtained using index number methods similar to those employed in the construction of the widely used Human Development Index. These are compared with alternative measures derived from data envelopment analysis methods. The influence of methodology choice and the assumptions made in scaling indicators upon the results obtained is illustrated and discussed. We then analyse the evolution of performance over time, finding evidence of some convergence in performance and no sign of social dumping. (JEL codes: H50, C14, D24) Copyright The Author 2010. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Ifo Institute for Economic Research, Munich. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org, Oxford University Press.'] ['Whereas existing OLG models with endogenous longevity neglect the impact of environmental quality on mortality, this paper studies the design of the optimal public intervention in a two-period OLG model where longevity is influenced positively by health expenditures, but negatively by pollution due to production. It is shown that if individuals, when choosing how much to spend on health, do not internalize the impact of their decision on environmental quality (i.e. the space available for each person), the decentralization of the social optimum requires a tax not only on capital income, but also, on health expenditures. The sensitivity of the optimal second-best public intervention is also explored numerically.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper shows that the design of education policy involves a potential conflict between welfare and social mobility. We consider a setting in which social mobility is maximized under the least elitist public education system, whereas welfare maximization calls for the most elitist system. We show that when private education is available, the degree of elitism that maximizes social mobility increases, while the welfare-maximizing degree of elitism decreases. The ranking between the welfare- and mobility-maximizing degree of elitism may even be reversed. Utilitarian welfare is always higher when private supplementary education is available, but social mobility may be reduced.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper analyzes the pattern of consumption taxes in a two period model with habit formation and myopia. An individual\xc2\x92s second-period needs increase with first period consumption. However, myopic individuals do not see this habit formation relation when they take their saving decision. The first-best solution is decentralized by a simple \xc2\x93Pigouvian\xc2\x94 (paternalistic) consumption tax (along with suitable lump-sum taxes). In a second-best setting, when personalized lump-sum transfers are not available, consumption taxes may have conflicting paternalistic and redistributive effects. Taxes should discourage consumption of goods that entail negative externalities (unforeseen habits), but instead they discourage less the consumption of goods that are proportionately consumed by individuals with high net social marginal utility of income. Both myopic and farsighted individuals may benefit more from the second-best policy as the proportion of myopic agents in society increases.'] [' This paper studies the role of alternative pension systems that offer collective annuities. The defining characteristic of collective annuities is that they do not depend on an individual\'s survival probabilities. We show that such a system may be welfare improving (with a utilitarian social welfare function) even when private annuity markets are perfect and when life expectancy and earning abilities are positively correlated (i.e., in a setting that is\xe2\x80\x82a priori\xe2\x80\x82biased against collective annuities). We first concentrate on linear pension systems and contrast two schemes: a pure contributory (Bismarckian) pension and a flat rate (Beveridgean) pension. We show that the case for collective annuities is stronger when they are associated with a flat pension system. Then we analyze nonlinear pension schemes. We show that the solution can be implemented by a pension scheme associated with annuities that reflect some degree of "collectiveness." Unlike under pure collective annuities, benefits do depend on life expectancy but to a lesser degree than with actuarially fair private annuities. In other words, the impact of survival probabilities is mitigated rather than completely neutralized. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2010 Wiley Periodicals, Inc..'] ["This paper studies the effects of piracy on prices and welfare and determines the optimal enforcement policy. A monopolist sells an information good at a non-linear price in two versions designed for two types of consumers with different willingness to pay. Consumers with low willingness to pay consumers can copy the good at some cost and with some quality loss. High valuation customers cannot engage in full-fledged piracy. However, they can consume the version designed for the other customer type. We show that copying or piracy may be welfare enhancing because it enables a good to be provided to individuals with a low willingness to pay without undermining the producing firm's ability to finance the development cost via the pricing scheme applied to high valuation consumers. There are then three levels of piracy control.\xc3\x82 The highest is that chosen by the private monopoly. The next level is the one chosen by a welfare-maximizing monopoly. The lowest level, which can be zero, is the level of control chosen by the public authority when the good is sold (and priced) by a profit-maximizing monopoly."] [" One is used to hearing harsh statements about inefficient public services. It is not surprising to see public sector performance questioned. What is surprising is that what is meant by performance, and how it is measured, does not seem to matter much to either the critics or the advocates of the public sector. The purpose of this paper is to suggest a definition, and a way to measure the performance of the public sector or rather of its main components. Our approach is explicitly rooted in the principles of welfare and production economics. We will proceed in four stages. First of all we present what we call the 'performance approach' to the public sector. This concept rests on the principal-agent relation that links a principal, i.e., the State, and an agent, i.e., the person in charge of the public sector unit, and on the definition of performance as the extent to which the agent fulfils the objectives assigned by the principal. The performance is then measured by using the notion of productive efficiency and the 'best practice' frontier technique. In the second stage we move to the issue of measuring the performance of some canonical components of the public sector (education, health care and railways transport), assuming that there is no constraint as to data availability. The idea is to disentangle the usual confusion between conceptual and data problems. In the third stage, we move to real world data problems. The question is then given the available data, whether it makes sense to assess and measure the performance of such public sector activities. The final stage is devoted to explaining performance or rather lack thereof. This exercise has clear implications for public policy. Finally we argue that when the scope is not components but the entirety of the public sector, one should restrict the performance analysis to outcomes and not relate them to inputs. Copyright \xef\xbf\xbd 2009 The Author Journal compilation \xef\xbf\xbd CIRIEC 2009."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper studies the design of nonlinear social security schemes when individuals differ in productivity and in their degree of myopia. Myopic individuals may not save \xe2\x80\x98\xe2\x80\x98enough\xe2\x80\x99\xe2\x80\x99 for their retirement. The welfare function is paternalistic: The rate of time preference of the farsighted is used for both types. We show that the solution does not necessarily imply forced savings for the myopics: Paternalistic considerations are mitigated by incentive effects. Numerical results suggest that as the proportion of myopic individuals increases, there is less redistribution and more forced saving, and the desirability of social security increases.'] ['In this paper, we assume that contributing to a charitable organisation (CO) brings some \xe2\x80\x9cjoy of giving\xe2\x80\x9d (or \xe2\x80\x9cwarm glow\xe2\x80\x9d) only if the organisation\xe2\x80\x99s ideological values are close to those of the donor. We also assume that creating a CO entails set-up costs. Thus more CO generates more contributions but also more costs. We compare the number of CO in a \xe2\x80\x9claissez-faire\xe2\x80\x9d setting with that in a first-best optimum. We then look at what should be the second-best solution when the only policy tool is the number of CO. R\xc3\x89SUM\xc3\x89 : Dans cet article, nous supposons que contribuer \xc3\xa0 un organisme de bienfaisance (OB) procure du \xc2\xab plaisir de donner \xc2\xbb (ou un \xc2\xab effet d\xe2\x80\x99aura \xc2\xbb) uniquement si les valeurs id\xc3\xa9ologiques de l\xe2\x80\x99organisme sont proches de celle du donateur. Nous supposons \xc3\xa9galement que la cr\xc3\xa9ation d\xe2\x80\x99un nouvel OB g\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa8re un co\xc3\xbbt d\xe2\x80\x99entr\xc3\xa9e. Ainsi, si un plus grand nombre d\xe2\x80\x99OB conduit \xc3\xa0 plus de dons, cela entra\xc3\xaene \xc3\xa9galement une r\xc3\xa9plication des co\xc3\xbbts fixes. Nous comparons le nombre d\xe2\x80\x99OB dans une situation de \xc2\xab laissez-faire \xc2\xbb avec le nombre optimal \xc3\xa0 l\xe2\x80\x99\xc3\xa9quilibre de premier rang. Nous examinons ensuite la solution de second rang lorsque le seul instrument de politique publique est le nombre d\xe2\x80\x99OB.'] ['Unemployment insurance (UI) in some countries is one of the most widely used routes to early retirement. Accordingly, firms lay off elderly workers whose wages exceed their productivity. These workers then receive unemployment benefits until they enter formal retirement, even though they have effectively already exited the labor market. To persuade them into finding the deal acceptable, they quite often may also receive some additional compensation from their employers. In this paper we consider three routes of transition from work to formal retirement that rely on UI: (i) standard unemployment compensation, (ii) public early retirement program yielding benefits higher than the unemployment compensation and (iii) unemployment compensation along with an income supplement provided by the former employer. The study examines under which conditions these three alternative practices can occur.'] ['This paper examines the optimal non-linear income and commodity tax when the same labor disutility can receive two alternative interpretations, taste for leisure or disability, but the disability is not readily observable. We compare the optimal policy under alternative social objectives, welfarist and non-welfarist, and conclude that the non-welfarist objective, in which the planner gives a higher weight to the disutility of labor of the disabled individuals, is the only reasonable specification. It has some foundation in the theory of responsibility; further, unlike the other specifications it yields an optimal solution that may involve a lower labor supply requirement from disabled individuals.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This study examines the level of public investment in environmental quality when there are private alternatives. Public investment is chosen by majority voting. When consumption and environmental quality are complementary, one may observe a solution of the type \xe2\x80\x9cends against the middle.\xe2\x80\x9d The setting is intertemporal. Parents are altruistic and they can express their altruism by leaving financial bequests, but also by voting and contributing to the environmental quality their children will enjoy. Copyright Springer Japan 2008'] [' In this paper we study the optimal design of a long term care policy in a setting that includes three types of care to dependent parents: public nursing, private nursing and assistance in time by children. Private nursing can be financed either by financial aid from children or by private insurance. The social planner can use a number of instruments: public nursing, subsidy to aiding children, subsidy to private insurance premiums, all financed by a flat tax on earnings. Copyright (c) The London School of Economics and Political Science 2007.'] [' Social insurance for the elderly is judged responsible for the widely observed trend towards early retirement. In a world of laissez-faire or in a first-best setting, there would be no such trend. However, when first-best instruments are not available, because health and productivity are not observable, the optimal social insurance policy may imply a distortion on the retirement decision. The main point we make is that while there is no doubt that retirement systems induce an excessive bias towards early retirement in many countries, a complete elimination of this bias (i.e. a switch to an actuarially fair system) is not the right answer for two reasons. First, some distortions are second-best optimal. This is the normative argument. Second, and on the positive side, the elimination of the bias might be problematic from a political perspective. Depending on the political process, either it may not be feasible or alternatively it may tend to undermine the political support for the pension system itself. Copyright 2007 The Authors. Journal compilation \xef\xbf\xbd 2007 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] ['This paper aims at investigating whether or not a utilitarian social planner should subsidize longevity-enhancing expenditures in an economy with a pay-as-you-go pension system. For that purpose, a two-period overlapping-generations model is developed, in which the probability of survival to the second period can be raised by private health spending. Focusing on the steady state, it is shown that the sign of the optimal subsidy on health expenditures tends to be negative when the replacement ratio is sufficiently large. Moreover, the optimal health subsidy is also shown to depend significantly on individual preferences and on the longevity production process.'] [" In many countries, pension systems involve some form of earnings test; i.e. an individual's benefits are reduced if he has labor income. This paper examines whether or not such earnings tests emerge when pension system and income tax are optimally designed. We use a simple model with individuals differing both in productivity and in their health status. The working life of an individual has two 'endings': an official retirement age at which he starts drawing pension benefits (while possibly supplementing them with some labor income) and an effective age of retirement at which professional activity is completely given up. Weekly work time is endogenous, but constant in the period before official retirement and again constant (but possibly at a different level), after official retirement. Earnings tests mean that earnings are subject to a higher tax after official retirement than before. We show under which conditions earnings tests emerge both under a linear and under a non-linear tax scheme. In particular, we show that earnings tests will occur if heterogeneities in health or productivity are more significant after official retirement than before. Copyright 2008 The Authors."] ['no abstract available.'] ['This paper studies the optimal linear pension scheme when society consists of rational and myopic individuals. Myopic individuals have, ex ante, a strong preference for the present even though, ex post, they would regret not to have saved enough. While rational and myopic persons share the same ex post intertemporal preferences, only the rational agents make their savings decisions according to these preferences. Individuals are also distinguished by their productivity. The social ob jective is \xe2\x80\x9cpaternalistic\xe2\x80\x9d: the utilitarian welfare function depends on ex post utilities. We examine how the presence of myopic individuals affects both the size of the pension system and the degree of redistribution it operates. The relationship between proportion of myopic individuals and characteristics of the pension system turns out to be much more complex than one would have conjectured. Neither the impact on the level of pensions nor the effect on their redistributive degree are unambiguous. Nevertheless, we show that under some plausible assumptions adding myopic individuals increases the level of pension bene\xef\xac\x81ts and leads to a shift from a \xef\xac\x82at or even targeted scheme to a partially contributory one. However, we also provide an example where the degree of redistribution is not a monotonic function of the proportion of myopic individuals.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['We argue that risk averse individuals prefer to increase their longevity in the direction of rectangularization of the survival curve instead of an upward shift of that curve. Risk aversion is measured by the concept of fear of ruin.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper studies the design of pension schemes in a society where fertility is endogenous and parents differ in their ability to raise children. In a world with perfect information, a pay-as-you-go social security system is characterized by equal pensions for all but different contributions which may or may not increase with the number of children. Additionally, fertility must be subsidized at the margin to correct for the externality that accompanies fertility. In a world of asymmetric information, incentive-related distortions supplement the Pigouvian subsidy. These may either require an additional subsidy or an offsetting tax on fertility depending on whether the redistribution is towards people with more or less children. In the former case, pensions are decreasing in the number of children; in the latter case, they are increasing."<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Among the rationales for social security, there is the fact that some people have to be forced to save. To explain undersaving, rational prodigality and hyperbolic preferences are often cited but treated separably. In this paper we study those two particular behaviors that lead to forced saving within an optimal income tax second-best setting. Copyright \xef\xbf\xbd 2008 The Authors. Journal compilation \xef\xbf\xbd 2008 Blackwell Publishing Ltd and The University of Manchester.'] ['Assuming a given educational policy, the recent brain drain literature reveals that skilled migration can boost the average level of schooling in developing countries. In this paper, we introduce educational subsidies determined by governments concerned by the number of skilled workers remaining in the country. Our theoretical analysis shows that developing countries can benefit from skilled emigration when educational subsidies entail high fiscal distortions. However when taxes are not too distortionary, it is desirable to impede emigration and subsidize education. We then investigate the empirical relationship between educational subsidies and migration prospects, obtaining a negative relationship for 105 countries. Based on this result, we revisit the country specific effects of skilled migration upon human capital. We show that the endogeneity of public subsidies reduces the number of winners and increases the magnitude of the losses.'] ["La r\xc3\xa9sistance aux r\xc3\xa9formes des retraites provient en partie d'une incompr\xc3\xa9hension des m\xc3\xa9canismes \xc3\xa9conomiques sousj-acents \xc3\xa0 la probl\xc3\xa9matique. Ces r\xc3\xa9formes touchent aux param\xc3\xa8tres cl\xc3\xa9s du syst\xc3\xa8me de retraite : taux de cotisation, montant des prestations et \xc3\xa2ge de d\xc3\xa9part \xc3\xa0 la retraite. Nous montrons qu\xe2\x80\x99accro\xc3\xaetre le taux d\xe2\x80\x99activit\xc3\xa9 des travailleurs \xc3\xa2g\xc3\xa9s n\xe2\x80\x99aura pas d\xe2\x80\x99effet n\xc3\xa9gatif sur l\xe2\x80\x99emploi des autres cat\xc3\xa9gories de travailleurs. En outre, nous d\xc3\xa9fendons l\xe2\x80\x99id\xc3\xa9e qu\xe2\x80\x99il est important de maintenir un revenu de remplacement d\xc3\xa9cent et li\xc3\xa9 \xc3\xa0 l\xe2\x80\x99\xc3\xa9volution du co\xc3\xbbt de la vie et de garantir un minimum de subsistance \xc3\xa0 toute personne n\xe2\x80\x99ayant pu contribuer suffisamment.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["This paper studies the determination through majority voting of a pension scheme when society consists of far-sighted and myopic individuals. All individuals have the same basic preferences but myopics tend to adopt a short term view (instant gratification) when dealing with retirement saving. Consequently, they will find themselves with low consumption after retirement and regret their insufficient savings decisions. Henceforth, when voting they tend to commit themselves into forced saving. We consider a pension scheme that is characterized by two parameters: the payroll tax rate (that determines the size or generosity of the system) and the 'Bismarckian factor' that determines its redistributiveness. Individuals vote sequentially. We examine how the introduction of myopic agents affects the generosity and the redistributiveness of the pension system. Our main result is that a flat pension system is always chosen when all individuals are of one kind (all far-sighted or all myopic), while a less redistributive system may be chosen if society is composed of both myopic and far-sighted agents. Furthermore, while myopic individuals tend to prefer larger payroll taxes than their far-sighted counterparts, the generosity of the system does not always increase with the proportion of myopics.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['This paper considers a three-overlapping-generations model of endogeneous growth wherein human capital is the engine of growth. It first contrasts the \xe2\x80\x98laissez-faire\xe2\x80\x99 and the optimal solutions. Three possible accumulation regimes are distinguished. Then it discusses a standard set of tax-transfer instruments that allow for decentralization of the social optimum. Within the limits of our model, the rationale for the standard pattern of intergenerational transfers (the working-aged financing the education of the young and the pension of the old) is seriously questioned. On pure efficiency grounds, the case for generous public pensions is rather weak.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['We study the design of retirement and disability policies and illustrate the often observed exit from the labor force of healthy workers through disability insurance schemes. In our model, two types of individuals, disabled and leisure-prone ones, have the same disutility for labor and cannot be distinguished. However, they are not counted in the same way in social welfare. We determine first- and second-best optimal benefit levels and retirement ages. Then we introduce the possibility of testing that can sort out disabled workers from healthy but retirement-prone workers. We show that such testing can increase both social welfare and the rate of participation of elderly workers; in addition disabled workers are better taken care of. It is not optimal to test all applicants. Surprisingly, the (second-best) solution may imply later retirement for the disabled than for the leisure-prone. In that case, the disabled are compensated by higher benefits.'] ['On the basis of French individual data, this paper compares the effects of demographic change, changes in morbidity and changes in practices on the growth in health expenditures that occurred between 1992 and 2000. Micro simulations show that the rise in expenditures due to ageing is relatively small and that the impact of changes in practices is 3.8 times larger. Furthermore, changes in morbidity induce savings which more than offset the increase in spending due to population ageing.'] ["In this paper we study the optimal design of a long term care policy in a setting that includes two types of care to dependent parents: financial assistance and assistance in time by children. The instruments are subsidies to aiding children, financed by a flat tax on earnings. The only source of heterogeneity is children's productivity. Parents can influence their children by leaving them gifts before they know whether or not they will need long term care, yet knowing the productivity of the children. The tax-transfer policy is shown to depend on its effect on parental gifts, on children's labor supply, on the distribution of wages and on consumption inequality between parents and children and between children having dependent parents and children having healthy parents."] ['We study optimal redistributive taxes when the population can be disaggregated into tagged groups. Under reasonable circumstances, the tax system will be more redistributive in the tagged group with the higher proportion of high-ability persons. We extend the analysis to the case where the tag reflects differences in resources required to achieve a given level of utility. The compensation given for needs depends on whether the income tax structure is differentiated by needs groups.'] [' This paper studies the design of an optimal pension scheme in an OLG and open economy model. The pension scheme provides a flat rate benefit and is based on the PAYG principle. It thus combines inter- and intra-generational redistribution. In this setting a number of symmetric economies are connected by an open and perfect capital market. When this number is very large, we have the small open economy case; when it is reduced to one, we have the case of autarky or perfect coordination. As the number of countries increases, there is more intragenerational redistribution, but less capital accumulation. Copyright Springer Science + Business Media, LLC 2006'] ["This paper studies the design of a pay-as-you-go social security system in a society where fertility is in part stochastic and in part determined through capital investment. If parents' investments in children are publicly observable, pension benefits must be linked positively to the the level of investment, and payroll taxes negatively to the number of children. The outcome is characterized by full insurance with all parents, regardless of their number of children, enjoying identical consumption levels. Without observability, benefits must increase, and payroll taxes decrease, with the number of children. The second-best level of investment in children, and the resulting average fertility rate, are less than their corresponding first-best levels.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['In many countries elderly workers are subject to a double distortion when they consider prolonging their activity: the payroll tax and a reduction in their pension rights. It is often argued that such a double burden would not be socially desirable. We consider a setting where it would be rejected by both a utilitarian and a Rawlsian social planner. Furthermore, each individual would also reject it as a citizen candidate. We show that the double burden may nevertheless be (second-best) Pareto efficient and can be supported by a particular structure of social weights biased towards the more productive workers.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Rochet (1991) showed that with distortionary income taxes, social insurance is a desirable redistributive device when risk and ability are negatively correlated. This finding is re-examined when "ex post" moral hazard and adverse selection are included, and under different informational assumptions. Individuals can take actions influencing the size of the loss in the event of accident (or ill health). Social insurance can be supplemented by private insurance, but private insurance markets are affected by both adverse selection and moral hazard. We study how equity and efficiency considerations should be traded off in choosing the optimal coverage of social insurance when those features are introduced. The case for social insurance is strongest when the government is well informed about household productivity. Copyright The editors of the "Scandinavian Journal of Economics" 2006 .'] [' We study the design of education policies (subsidies and public education) when parents\' investment in education is motivated by warm-glow altruism and determines the probability that a child has a high ability. The optimal subsidy is not necessarily positive. It is determined by two conflicting terms: a Pigouvian term (warm-glow altruists do not properly account for the impact of education on future generations) and a "paternalistic" effect (the warm-glow term may not be fully included in social welfare). Finally, total crowding out of private expenditure (for one of the types) by public education may be desirable. Copyright 2006 Blackwell Publishing, Inc..'] ['It is often argued that implicit taxation on continued activity of elderly workers is responsible for the widely observed trend towards early retirement. In a world of laissez-faire or of first-best efficiency, there would be no such implicit taxation. This raises the question of whether a bias in the benefit formula in favor of early retirement is necessarily the sign of a bad policy. We show that this implicit tax on potsponed retirement can be due to the desire by public authorities of using social security for redistribution when non-distortionary tools are not available. We also examine possible ways to mitigate these distorsions, for instance, through disability testing.'] [' As recently argued by Diamond (1998), one of the key factors explaining the progressivity of an optimal non-linear income tax is the distribution of productivity among workers. Migration is one source of changes in the productivity distribution. How changes in the population\xe2\x80\x99s ability distribution affect optimal income tax schedules has received little attention. Changing the distribution generally affects both the objective function and the government budget constraint. We first consider the comparative statics of the fraction of highly-skilled workers with maximin and maximax welfare functions (so that only the second effect is present) and a quasi-linear utility function. We also present some results for a utilitarian social welfare function. We then study the interaction between mobility and redistributive taxation. We consider mobility by either the skilled or unskilled population under majority voting where governments take the population as fixed. If individuals choose to relocate independently, having identical ability distributions is always a stable equilibrium when the unskilled are the mobile group. However, this is not always the case when the skilled are mobile. If groups of individuals can choose where to locate, having identical ability distributions across regions is only an equilibrium when the mobile type has an overall majority. Copyright Springer Science + Business Media, Inc. 2005'] [' This paper explores the effects of a menu of intergenerational fiscal policies (public debt financed by taxes, PAYG social security system, inheritance taxation) in an overlapping-generations model with perfect altruism. It generalizes Barro\'s model by introducing intragenerational heterogeneity; in other words, households differ in productivity and altruism. Within such a model, wealth is held entirely in the steady state by those families with the highest degree of altruism. Under plausible assumptions, both public debt and social security are neutral "\xc3\xa0 la" Ricardo, while inequality increases. Also, estate taxation can be Pareto-worsening even though it fosters income equality. Copyright (c) The London School of Economics and Political Science 2005.'] ['This note presents and discusses a number of questionable assertions on retirement and on policies aimed at fostering labor participation among elderly workers. We show that these assertions are fallacious or at best highly questionable.'] ["We model long-term care insurance in an optimal taxation framework. Every adult decides upon the amount and type of care he purchases for his dependent parent. We consider two alternatives: nursing-home care provided by the government, and home care paid by the child with some lump-sum subsidy by the government. The only source of information asymmetry is the government's inability to observe the degree of altruism of the adult child for his/her parent. Further tax collection entails some social costs. In such a second-best setting, we show that the quality of institutional care has to be kept relatively low and that compared to altruistic children, nonaltruistic ones enjoy a high level of consumption."] ['This paper studies the design of education policies in a setting of overlapping generations with heterogeneous individuals. Individuals differ in productivity (high and low earning ability) and in altruism (altruists and non altruists). Only altruistic parents invest in education out of some joy of giving. Their investment determines the probability that a child has high ability. Education policies consist of a subsidy on private educational investments and of public education. We show that when an income tax is available, the subsidy on education should not depend on redistribution. Instead, it is determined by the following terms. First, a Pigouvian term which arises because under warm glow altruism parents\xc2\xa1\xc2\xaf utility does not properly account for the impact of education on future generations. The second term captures a \xc2\xa1\xc2\xb0merit good\xc2\xa1\xc2\xb1 effect, which arises when the warm glow term is not fully included in social welfare (possibility of laundering out). Third, depending on the information structure there may be a substitution term that arises because the demand for second period consumption and for education transfer are interdependent. The first two terms are of opposite sign and the optimal subsidy may be positive or negative. Finally, we derive conditions under which public education is desirable. Public education affects also the probability of being highly productive for the altruists and the non altruists. Its desirability will in part depend on its substitutability with private educational investment.'] [' It is often argued that the observed trend towards early retirement is due mainly to the implicit tax imposed on continued activity of elderly workers. We study the relevance of such a distortion in a political economy model with endogenous age of retirement. The setting is a two-period overlapping generations model. Individuals differ in their productivity. In the first period they work a fixed amount of time; in the second, they choose when to retire and then receive a flat rate pension benefit. Pensions are financed by a payroll tax on earnings in the first and in the second period of life. Such a tax is non distortionary in the first period; it is distortionary in the second period. We allow for some rebating of the second period tax. Individuals vote on the level of the payroll tax given the rebate which can range from 0 (biased system) to 100% (neutral system). We provide sufficient conditions for the existence of a voting equilibrium and study its properties. Under these conditions, high tax rates are supported by all the old and by low productivity young individuals. We show that the pivotal voter is a young individual. The number of young individuals who have higher wage than the pivotal voter equals half the total population. We also show that the introduction of a bias increases the political support for the pension system. Finally, we study the simultaneous determination of the bias and the tax rate through a voting procedure and show that the equilibrium (if any) implies a bias which is always positive and may or not be larger than one. Copyright Springer Science + Business Media, Inc. 2005'] [' Assuming the government cannot fully observe either individual types or incomes and jointly picks optimal taxes and audit policies against evasion can significantly alter standard results from optimal income taxation and tax-evasion models, which treat these separately. We consider this when individuals differ in their risk preferences and incomes. Given the resulting complexity, supplementing analytic results with numerical analysis helps explain the structure of the resulting policies and how they change when the distribution of income or the revenue requirements of the government change. We do this analysis with and without audit errors and with incomes exogenous or affected by occupational choice. Copyright 2004 Blackwell Publishing Inc..'] ['This paper reviews the arguments which can justify government intervention in health care and health insurance. It is shown that moral hazard or adverse selection do not appear to justify public intervention. The two main arguments in favor of public health insurance appear to be its lower (administrative) costs and the concern for redistribution.'] ['This paper studies the design of retirement and disability policies when individuals differ in both productivity and health. The second-best solution implies (downward) distortions in the (per-period) labor supply and in the choice of retirement age for some individuals, and lesser redistribution towards workers with poor health and low productivity. This problem can be mitigated when disability screening is available. Optimal disability screening involves a random component; it is never optimal to audit all individuals who claim to be disabled. The optimal audit probability strikes a balance between audit costs and benefits obtained by relaxing an otherwise binding incentive constraint.'] [' This paper analyzes an overlapping generation (OLG) growth model wherein saving finances second period consumption and bequest-as-consumption. First, it looks at the market equilibrium and at the optimal solution; then it turns to the issue of decentralizing the optimal solution with various taxes and transfers. Depending on the available instruments, either a first-best or a second-best optimum can be achieved. Throughout the paper, the results are contrasted with those obtained in the standard OLG model without intergenerational transfers. Copyright 2004 Blackwell Publishing Inc..'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['It is often argued that implicit taxation on continued activity of elderly workers is responsible for the widely observed trend towards early retirement. In a world of laissez-faire or of first-best efficiency, there would be no such implicit taxation. The point of this paper is that when first-best redistributive instruments are not available, because some variables are not observable, the optimal policy does imply a distortion of the retirement decision. Consequently, the inducement of early retirement may be part of the optimal tax-transfer policy. We consider a model in which individuals differ in their productivity and their capacity to work long and choose both their weekly labor supply and their age of retirement. We characterize the optimal non linear tax-transfer that maximizes a utilitarian welfare function when weekly earnings and the length of active life are observable while individuals\xe2\x80\x99 productivity and health status are not observable.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The gist of this paper is that the financial problems of pensions arise not only from the ageing of the population but also from the progressive reduction of the retirement age. It shows that social security systems explain in part such a reduction and indicates why reforms encounter so many political obstacles even though they would benefit most retirees, particularly those with few resources. Copyright Blackwell Publishing Ltd 2003.'] ['The European Union consists of a wide variety of welfare states with social insurance schemes ranging from those providing earnings related benefits (Bismarckian) to fat rate benefits (Beveridgean) systems. The conventional wisdom is that with factor mobility poor people have incentives to move towards Beveridgean countries and rich individuals to move out of them. Consequently, Beveridgean regimes would not be sustainable; they would have to adapt or to perish. This paper studies the validity of such a conjecture within a simple model. It is shown that mobility does have a significant impact on social protection. However, the equilibrium patterns that can emerge are more complex and diversified than the initial conjecture suggests. In some cases, the equilibrium may even imply that all the poor move to the Bismarckian country.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Most work on tax competition argues that mobile factors tend to be undertaxed except if there is coordination of tax policies. Full coordination is not however always feasible, and as a consequence some measures of partial coordination have been proposed such as minimal witholding taxes on interest income. We show that partial coordination can be in some instances welfare worsening and that then no coordination is to be preferred.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Most models of tax competition assume full employment. Yet, actually one often observes that fiscal competition, particularly when it is aimed at attracting investment, is motivated by the concern of fighting unemployment and enhancing job creation. The present paper considers a multicountry model with capital mobility and unemployment. Fiscal policy has two opposing objectives: financing unemployment insurance and increasing employment. In each country there is a majority vote on this policy. Copyright 2003 Blackwell Publishing Inc..'] ['The authors discuss the reasons for which some limitation has recently been introduced in Belgium on the number of physicians allowed to start practice every year. They explain how this number is fixed and analyze the pros and cons of different procedures for selecting physicians. They argue that this limitation is only one among a number of measures aimed at reforming the health care system in Belgium.'] ['In a number of developing countries, an important part of the economy is informal both in terms of production and of social protection. In this paper we consider introducing a universal pension system in the formal sector. It is shown to have two main effects: first, it makes the formal sector more attractive to migration and second, it affects capital accumulation in a way that depends on the type of social security introduced, PAYG or funded, and its induced effect on private saving.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Using the standard non linear income and commodity taxation framework, we examine the optimal policy to be adopted when the same labour disutility can receive two opposite interpretations: taste for leisure and activity limitation. In the absence of complete information about individual characteristics, an income tax does not allow distinguishing lazy from handicapped individuals. One may rely, however, on a combination of commodity and income taxes to redistribute from the former to the latter when they differ in their preferences for commodities.'] ["[fre] Cette contribution analyse la relation entre le choix du d\xc3\xa9part \xc3\xa0 la retraite et le syst\xc3\xa8me de s\xc3\xa9curit\xc3\xa9 sociale. Elle indique que si dans la r\xc3\xa9alit\xc3\xa9 l'\xc3\xa2ge effectif du d\xc3\xa9part \xc3\xa0 la retraite est trop bas c'est parce que les travailleurs sont individuellement ou collectivement incit\xc3\xa9s \xc3\xa0 prendre une telle d\xc3\xa9cision. Elle montre que c'est en jouant sur les incitations implicites au syst\xc3\xa8me de s\xc3\xa9curit\xc3\xa9 sociale (retraites, invalidit\xc3\xa9, ch\xc3\xb4mage et m\xc3\xaame fiscalit\xc3\xa9 directe) que l'on pourra inverser la tendance, ce qui permettra d'assurer la viabilit\xc3\xa9 financi\xc3\xa8re du syst\xc3\xa8me de retraite et un bien-\xc3\xaatre sup\xc3\xa9rieur pour les retrait\xc3\xa9s de demain. [eng] This contribution analyzes the relation between retirement and social security. It explains the very low effective retirement age by individual or collective incentives provided to workers. It shows that by removing the incentives to early retirement implicit in social security (public pensions, disability or unemployment insurance) one can invert the trend towards low activity rates among elderly workers. This kind of policy reform can guarantee the financial viability of social security systems and have a positive effect on the well being of future retirees."] ['This paper extends the Atkinson-Stiglitz model of direct and indirect taxation to a dynamic setting with two unobservable characteristics: productive ability and inherited wealth. Bequests are motivated by the "joy of giving". A child\'s inheritance is a random variable with a probability distribution that depends on his parent\'s investment in a "bequest technology". Public borrowing is assumed and implies the modified golden rule. We study the optimal tax policy when two instruments are available: a non-linear (wage) income tax and a proportional tax on capital income. We show that the second instrument ought, in general, to be used but that the tax rate is not necessarily positive. However, a positive tax rate is more likely when there is a positive correlation between inherited wealth and innate ability.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Early retirement seems to plague social security systems in a number of European countries. In this paper we argue that delaying retirement may have two positive effects: it is likely to partially restore the financial balance of the system, and it may foster redistribution among retirees. To obtain such a double dividend, the benefit rule of the initial social security scheme must have the following two characteristics. First, it operates redistribution within generations. Second, it is "biased" and induces early retirement. Copyright 2003 by Kluwer Academic Publishers'] [' This paper studies the role of family size in the design of optimal income taxation. We consider a second best setting where the government observes the number of children and the income of the parents but not their productivity. With a linear tax schedule the marginal tax rate is shown to decrease with the number of children, while the relationship between the demogrant and family size appears to be ambiguous. With two ability levels, optimal non-linear income tax implies zero marginal tax rates for the higher ability parents; low ability parents have positive marginal tax rates that decrease with family size. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2003'] ["If total social income is fixed and a social planner is uninformed of the utility representations of different individuals, then Lerner showed that the social optimum is to equally distribute income across individuals. We show that the planner by the use of randomization can in some circumstances induce individuals to reveal information about the curvature of their utility functions and then use the information to move away from equality on average. However, whether this is optimal depends in part on unobservable beliefs of the planner. These may be viewed as an aspect of the planner's ethical judgements or as something entirely arbitrary."] [' This paper examines the properties of the optimal nonlinear income tax when preferences are quasi-linear in leisure and individuals differ in their ability and their preferences for leisure. The government seeks to redistribute income. It can perfectly observe the level of endogenous income but cannot observe either ability or preferences. The heterogeneity of preferences leads to problems of comparability between individual utilities which challenge the design of redistributive schemes. We analyze the consequences of adopting a utilitarian social welfare function where the government is allowed to give different weights to individuals with different preferences. Under this particular social objective and given the quasi-linearity of preferences, we are able to obtain closed-form solutions for the marginal tax rates and to examine the progressivity of the tax system according to the weights used. Copyright Blackwell Publishing, Inc. 2002.'] ["[fre] Cet article d\xc3\xa9fend l'id\xc3\xa9e que le rel\xc3\xa8vement de l'\xc3\xa2ge de la retraite est une mesure \xc3\xa0 la fois indispensable pour assurer la viabilit\xc3\xa9 des syst\xc3\xa8mes de retraite, et \xc3\xa9quitable du point de vue des travailleurs les moins qualifi\xc3\xa9s. Il montre aussi que l'impopularit\xc3\xa9 d'une telle mesure vient d'une mauvaise compr\xc3\xa9hension des alternatives qui sont offertes aux travailleurs \xc3\xa9lecteurs. . Classification JEL : D3, H55, J26 [eng] Increasing the retirement age : a needed and equitable reform . This paper argues that increasing the retirement age is a policy that is both needed for the financial viability of social security system and equitable from the viewpoint of low productivity workers. It also shows that the political unpopularity of such a reform comes from a deep misunderstanding as to the actual alternatives that society faces. . JEL classification : D3, H55, J26"] ['This paper extends the Diamond overlapping-generations model with pay-as-you-go social security by allowing for variable retirement age and for distortionary taxation of earnings and interest income. The tax rates are shown to depend on whether or not debt policy is available, and on the compensated elasticities of the two key variables: the amount of saving and the age of retirement. The relative tax on earnings, and thus the downward distortion on the age of retirement, is shown to be low if the age of retirement has a high tax elasticity and if, when there is no debt policy, there is underaccumulation (with respect to the modified golden rule).'] ['It is often argued that implicit taxation on continued activity of elderly workers is responsible for the widely observed trend towards early retirement. In a first best world, it is certainly possible to eliminate this taxation and have a social security scheme that is redistributive and efficient at the same time. This paper shows that in a second best world, the optimal policy implies an inducement to retire early. We consider a model where the social objective is utilitarian and where individuals differ both in unobservable productivity and health status. Classification JEL : E62, H23, H55'] ['This paper argues that there is no race to the bottom when the social planner adopts a Rawlsian criterion, only the poor are mobile and they do not work at the optimal tax outcome. This argument is developed within a two skill-model of optimal income taxation.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This article studies the optimal direct/indirect tax mix problem when individuals differ in several unobservable characteristics (productivity and endowments). It presents general expressions for the optimal commodity tax rates and proves that contrary to Atkinson and Stiglitz\'s (1976) result, differential commodity taxation remains a useful instrument of tax policy even if preferences are separable between labor and produced goods. When cross substitution effects are zero, the expressions resemble traditional many households Ramsey rules. In a Cobb-Douglas illustration, where endowments differ only in good 1 (interpreted as "wealth"), the tax on good 2 provides an indirect way to tax the unobservable wealth.'] [' We assume that individual voters differ not only according to age but also productivity. In the steady state, workers with wages in the intermediate range join the retired persons to form a majority and vote for a positive level of social security. When a shock decreases population growth, entrenched interests can constrain majority voting decisions and prevent reforms in the name of entitlements. We show that from a Rawlsian viewpoint it may be desirable to rely on these entitlements to protect the low wage earners of the transition generations. However, when the possibility of fixing a basic pension is introduced, it constitutes a better instrument than entitlements. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 2001'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper develops an intertemporal model wherein production generates pollution, which is viewed by consumers as a public bad. There are two types of consumer: those who are altruistic and leave bequests to their children, and those who are pure life-cyclers. Both types voluntarily contribute to the quality of environment through environmental groups. It appears that, if bequests by altruists and voluntary contributions by all are positive, redistribution is neutral--which does not mean that pollution abatement and capital accumulation are optimal. To achieve optimality, one needs a tax on inheritance and a differential subsidy on all consumer contributions. Copyright 2000 by The London School of Economics and Political Science'] ["[eng] In this paper, we explain why the old manage to obtain favourable pension policies whereas they belong to a minority in the population. The argument relies on the multidimensional nature of the political process. Indeed, we consider a two-dimensional collective choice problem. The first of these choices is the level of the contribution rate to the Pay-As-You-Go pension system. The second is a non economic decision, unrelated to the pension system. Using a political agency model, we show that, as soon as the retirees are sufficiently numerous, the equilibrium tax rate may be higher than the tax rate preferred by the young, who yet constitute a majority in the population. [fre] Cet article explique pourquoi les travailleurs cessent toute activit\xc3\xa9 de plus en plus t\xc3\xb4t alors qu'au travers du syst\xc3\xa8me de retraite par r\xc3\xa9partition la soci\xc3\xa9t\xc3\xa9 s'endette de plus en plus. Pour ce faire, nous adoptons un mod\xc3\xa8le \xc3\xa0 g\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9rations imbriqu\xc3\xa9es avec production et participation endog\xc3\xa8ne au march\xc3\xa9 du travail pendant la seconde p\xc3\xa9riode de vie. Nous montrons que cette participation d\xc3\xa9cro\xc3\xaet si la retraite par r\xc3\xa9partition augmente. Nous montrons aussi qu'en cas de sous-accumulation, imposer une retraite pr\xc3\xa9coce peut \xc3\xaatre socialement souhaitable."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We show that investing social security in the equity market makes no difference under three assumptions: (1) the transition generation is compensated by public borrowing, (2) the benefit rule is unchanged, and (3) individuals\xe2\x80\x99 portfolio choices are unconstrained. We also show that when these assumptions do not hold, the reform is not neutral; it can be Pareto improving but it can also be Pareto worsening. This depends particularly on the way portfolio choices are constrained. For example, if a majority of households are kept away from the equity market because of liquidity constraints, investing part of their contributions in the equity market can be Pareto improving.'] [' We consider a two-period overlapping generations model in which individual voters differ by age and by productivity. In such a setting, a redistributive pay-as-you-go system is politically sustainable, even when the interest rate is higher than the rate of population growth. The workers with medium wages (not those with the lowest wages) and the retirees form a majority which votes for a positive level of social security. This level depends on the difference between the rates of population growth and interest as well as on the redistributiveness of the benefit rule. Copyright 2000 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics.'] [' This paper addresses the question of the optimal taxation of labour and interest income in an overlapping generations model with two unobservable characteristics, ability and inheritance. We assume realistically that saving can only be taxed anonymously, whereas the tax on labour earnings can be individualized and made non-linear. In such a setting, we show that a withholding tax on interest income along with a non-linear tax on labour income is desirable. The role of interest income taxation is to indirectly tax inherited wealth. Copyright 2000 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' In this paper, we present alternative measures of efficiency of the welfare state and of its components. We observe non negligible efficiency slacks in the way benefits are distributed and services produced. We try to explain these slacks and to suggest ways of correcting them. Depending on the case, our exercise can be viewed as providing argument for the dismantling of the welfare state or giving it additional resources when inefficiency can be corrected and the political will to do so exists. Copyright 1999 by WWZ and Helbing &amp; Lichtenhahn Verlag AG'] ['The purpose of this paper is to provide a critical evaluation of theoretical models showing that shifting from pay-as-you-go to fully funded social security schemes can be made Pareto-improving. Further, it argues that what often makes a reform towards funded schemes attractive is a number of additional features that could also have been introduced in the unfunded social security system.The paper is organized in three main sections. The first one presents a taxonomy of social security systems; this allows us to show that in privatization programmes the issue is not just moving from unfunded to funded mechanisms but also, and above all, to individualize the system in such a way that there is no more redistribution. The second shows that funded and pay-as-you-go schemes are equivalent as long as the payroll taxes paid during the period of inception of the pay-as-you-go scheme are duly invested. Finally, the third section presents two models of Pareto-improving social security reforms and discusses the assumptions on which they rely. The Geneva Papers on Risk and Insurance (1999) 24, 114\xe2\x80\x93130. doi:10.1111/1468-0440.00008'] ['The purpose of this paper is to provide a critical evaluation of theoretical models showing that shifting from pay-as-you-go to fully-funded social security schemes can be made Pareto-improving. Further, it argues that what often makes a reform towards funded schemes attractive is a number of additional features that could also have been introduced in the unfunded social security system. The paper is organized in three main sections. The first one presents a taxonomy of social security systems; this allows us to show that in privatization programs the issue is not just moving from unfunded to funded mechanisms but also, and above all, to individualize the system in such a way that there is no more redistribution. The second shows that funded and pay-as-you-go schemes are equivalent as long as the payroll taxes paid during the period of inception of the pay-as-you-go scheme are duly invested. Finally, the third section presents two models of Pareto improving social security reforms and discusses the assumptions on which they rely. L\xe2\x80\x99objectif de cet article est de contribuer \xc3\xa0 la clart\xc3\xa9 du d\xc3\xa9bat entrepris dans de nombreux pays sur la r\xc3\xa9forme du syst\xc3\xa8me de retraite. Cette r\xc3\xa9forme est souvent pr\xc3\xa9sent\xc3\xa9e comme se limitant \xc3\xa0 un changement de technique de financement : on passerait de la r\xc3\xa9partition \xc3\xa0 la capitalisation. Or, il appara\xc3\xaet que capitalisation et r\xc3\xa9partition sont sous certaines hypoth\xc3\xa8ses \xc3\xa9quivalentes et que les r\xc3\xa9formes propos\xc3\xa9es ne se limitent pas \xc3\xa0 passer de l\xe2\x80\x99une \xc3\xa0 l\xe2\x80\x99autre. Si seule changeait la technique de financement, il n\xe2\x80\x99est g\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9ralement pas possible que la r\xc3\xa9forme soit Pareto-am\xc3\xa9liorante. Par exemple, toute r\xc3\xa9duction de l\xe2\x80\x99endettement global \xe2\x80\x94 dette publique plus droits \xc3\xa0 la pension \xe2\x80\x94 favoriserait les g\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9rations futures mais p\xc3\xa9naliserait toute, ou en tout cas une partie de la g\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9ration de transition. Il existe bien des mod\xc3\xa8les de r\xc3\xa9forme qui illustrent ce point de vue et pr\xc3\xa9tendent accro\xc3\xaetre le bien-\xc3\xaatre de tous. Nous en pr\xc3\xa9sentons deux. Dans le premier, l\xe2\x80\x99introduction de la capitalisation s\xe2\x80\x99accompagne d\xe2\x80\x99une r\xc3\xa9duction des distorsions li\xc3\xa9es aux cotisations sociales; dans le second, elle s\xe2\x80\x99accompagne d\xe2\x80\x99une subvention \xc3\xa0 l\xe2\x80\x99\xc3\xa9pargne qui dans un contexte de croissance endog\xc3\xa8ne a une productivit\xc3\xa9 constante. Il appara\xc3\xaet que les gains de bien-\xc3\xaatre qu\xe2\x80\x99entra\xc3\xaenent ces r\xc3\xa9formes ne sont pas tr\xc3\xa8s importants; de plus ils ne sont pas li\xc3\xa9s \xc3\xa0 la privatisation comme telle; ils pourraient en effet \xc3\xaatre r\xc3\xa9alis\xc3\xa9s dans le cadre des syst\xc3\xa8mes actuels.'] ["[fre] Retraites par r\xc3\xa9partition et droits acquis. . Le ralentissement de la croissance \xc3\xa9conomique et le vieillissement d\xc3\xa9mographique expliquent que l'on s'interroge sur l'avenir de retraites fond\xc3\xa9es sur la r\xc3\xa9partition. L'objet de cet article est de montrer que la difficult\xc3\xa9 r\xc3\xa9elle \xc3\xa0 laquelle fait face notre syst\xc3\xa8me de retraite n'est pas de nature \xc3\xa9conomique ou d\xc3\xa9mographique mais politique. Nos soci\xc3\xa9t\xc3\xa9s ont les moyens de vieillir mais, pour cela, il faut un certain courage politique, celui de renoncer aux droits acquis et d'adapter continuellement le syst\xc3\xa8me de retraite aux besoins du moment. [eng] Pay-as-you-go pensions and entitlements. . The future of Pay-as-you-go (PAYG) pension systems is a hotly debated issue. In this paper, we argue that the real difficulty facing these systems does not come from factors such as aging or declining productivity growth but from political resistance to changes. In other words, the problems are political rather than economic or demographic. Our society can afford to grow older but to do so, it is necessary to question and eventually abandon a number of entitlements and continuously adjust the pension system to evolving needs."] ['This paper studies the incidence of tax-transfer policy in a growth model wherein individuals differ according to their level of intergenerational altruism and have an endogenous labor supply. The main result is that public debt is neutral at the macro level but redistributes resources from nonaltruists to altruists. Capital income taxation can hurt the nonaltruists who do not have any wealth more than it hurts the altruists who own all of it. Whether or not the altruists supply a positive amount of labor makes a big difference as to the incidence of alternative tax transfer policies. Copyright 1999 by Blackwell Publishing Inc.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper considers a federal country composed of local jurisdictions which differ in their taste for public goods and finance public spending by a source-based tax on capital income. The taste for public goods is private information of jurisdictions. By transferring differential grants to jurisdictions the central government aims at both reducing the misallocation of capital due to the diverging jurisdictional tax rates on capital income and getting closer to the optimal balance between private and public consumption in every jurisdiction. The purpose of the paper is to characterize the optimal grant policy of the central government. It is shown that there persist at the optimum both some misallocation of capital and some violation of the Samuelson rule in every jurisdiction.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['It is generally accepted that moving from an unfunded to a funded social security system implies a welfare loss for the transition generation\xe2\x80\x94that is, the generation that has to pay twice: first, saving for its own retirement and, second, contributing to the pensions of the then retired generation. This article shows that in a setting of endogenous growth with positive externality such a transition can be Pareto improving. But it argues also that social security reform is more a pretext than a requirement for internalizing such a positive externality. The Geneva Papers on Risk and Insurance Theory (1998) 23, 119\xe2\x80\x93125. doi:10.1023/A:1008622110502'] ['This paper develops a model of bequeathing based on a moral hazard type of argument. This model explains why altruistic parents prefer late bequests to early inter-vivos gifts; it also analyzes whether or not they ought to leave rather equal bequests to their children even when the children end up with quite different incomes.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper studies the design of redistributive policiesbetween and within the member countries of an economic union.There are two types of countries, which differ in their proportionof high income individuals. Both the supra-national and the nationalgovernments attempt to redistribute income within their respectiveboundaries. However, the central government cannot observe anindividual country\xe2\x80\x98s ability to pay; it only observes the aggregate(internal) redistributive effort of each country. We derive theoptimal incentive compatible tax-transfer policy of the centralgovernment and show that there is a tradeoff between inter- andintra-national redistribution. Specifically, to reduce informationalrents of the rich countries, the optimal policy induces a distortionin the poor countries\xe2\x80\x98 (internal) redistributive policies. Interestingly,both insufficient as well as excessive redistribution can arise. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 1997'] ['The non-cooperative provision of public goods is analysed in the context of a two-stage game in which club size is determined endogenously. Equilibrium club size and voluntary labour supply are shown to be inefficient. The impact of optimally-chosen fiscal policies using simple instruments is studied. When agents do not derive nonpecuniary benefits from volunteer work, lump-sum grants can be used to implement the first-best equal treatment allocation but private provision is fully crowded out. Otherwise, it is found that simple fiscal instruments cannot implement the first-best equal-treatment allocation unless club size is directly regulated.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" This paper develops a model of inter vivos gifts and bequests in a setting of moral hazard and adverse selection. Altruistic parents do not perfectly know how much effort their children make to earn their living, nor do they known their true level of ability. Inter vivos gifts take place prior to the realization of the children's earnings whereas at the moment of bequests, parents do observe them. We show that an optimal transfer policy generally uses a mix of inter vivos gifts--deemed as more efficient--and bequests--deemed as more redistributive."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["[eng] This paper assesses the relative efficiency of a number of components of the welfare state. It also tries to explain the efficiency slacks so observed. It appears that one of the main ways of fostering efficiency is to introduce flexibility in both management and organization and to allow for competition, where it is possible. These measures are often found to be more effective than mere privatization. [fre] L'objet de cet article est d'\xc3\xa9valuer le degr\xc3\xa9 d'inefficacit\xc3\xa9 de diverses composantes de l'Etat-providence et d'expliquer les raisons des disparit\xc3\xa9s qui peuvent appara\xc3\xaetre. Nous indiquons que les inefficacit\xc3\xa9s ainsi observ\xc3\xa9es peuvent \xc3\xaatre r\xc3\xa9sorb\xc3\xa9es, en partie en tout cas, en introduisant plus de flexibilit\xc3\xa9 dans la gestion et l'organisation et, l\xc3\xa0 o\xc3\xb9 cela s'y pr\xc3\xaate, une certaine concurrence. Ces mesures nous paraissent plus performantes que le recours \xc3\xa0 la privatisation pour g\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9rer des gains d'efficacit\xc3\xa9 et en quelque sorte refinancer de l'int\xc3\xa9rieur un Etat- providence qui en a bien besoin."] ['This paper considers a utilitarian federal government that attempts to effect some revenue sharing or to finance through taxation some national public good. For reason of asymmetric information, this financing cannot be based on actual regional income nor on regional preferences, as it should be in a first-best setting. The only information available at no cost to federal authorities is the amount of regional public spending. In this setting with two imperfectly observable characteristics, regional income and regional preferences, we derive an optimal tax surcharge that can be viewed as a non linear matching grant scheme. This is done first without and second with the possibility of using costly auditors to acquire more information on regional income.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper studies the role of social insurance as a redistributive mechanism in presence of an optimal (linear or general) income tax. It considers a second-best setting with two unobservable individual characteristics: ability, measured by the wage rate and risk, measured by the probability of incurring a loss. It shows that both tax progressivity and the optimal level of social insurance crucially depend on the correlation between ability and risk.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["[fre] Cet article discute d'abord de ce qu'il faut entendre par la performance d'une entreprise publique et indique les limites des mesures traditionnelles de perfor\xc2\xadmance. Il pr\xc3\xa9sente ensuite une approche particuli\xc3\xa8re, celle de l'efficacit\xc3\xa9 techni\xc2\xadque et survole une s\xc3\xa9rie d'\xc3\xa9tudes empiriques dont une analyse de l'efficacit\xc3\xa9 technique des services postaux. Enfin, il montre que parmi les facteurs pouvant conduire \xc3\xa0 des gains d'efficacit\xc3\xa9 la concurrence et la d\xc3\xa9r\xc3\xa9glementation ont plus d'influence que le mode de propri\xc3\xa9t\xc3\xa9. [eng] In a first part, this paper presents a discussion of the concept of performance applied to public enterprises and shows the limits of traditional approaches designed to evaluate the performance. In a second part, it focuses on the notion of technical efficiency and presents a survey of some significative empirical studies. Finally, it discusses the main factors allowing for efficiency gains ; among these factors, it is argued that competition and deregulation matter more than ownership."] ["[fre] Cet article discute les avantages et les inconv\xc3\xa9nients d'un syst\xc3\xa8me d'assurance-maladie qui serait exclusivement public ou priv\xc3\xa9. Ensuite, il passe en revue les syst\xc3\xa8mes d'un certain nombre de pays de l'O.C.D.E., syst\xc3\xa8mes o\xc3\xb9 coexistent l'Etat et le march\xc3\xa9. Il conclut en souhaitant que le financement de l'assurance-maladie demeure essentiellement public et que soit pr\xc3\xa9serv\xc3\xa9e l'universalit\xc3\xa9 d'acc\xc3\xa8s. [eng] This paper discusses the comparative advantages of the state and the market in providing health insurance. It then reviews actual systems of health insurance such as experienced in a number of O.E.C.D. countries. In these systems, one finds a combination of state control and market allocation. It then concludes on the necessity of insuring by all means universal accessibility."] ["This paper surveys the theoretical literature devoted to the effect of labor mobility on social and redistributive policies for member states of an economic union. It presents the basic model which relies on a non-cooperative equilibrium, discusses some of the main qualifications that can be addressed to this model and then turns to the solutions suggested to give back to national governments their redistributive power and possibly to achieve some redistribution within the whole economic union. Il est aujourd\xe2\x80\x99hui largement admis que l'int\xc3\xa9gration \xc3\xa9conomique et la mobilit\xc3\xa9 du travail \xc3\xa9rodent la capacit\xc3\xa9 redistributive des gouvernements nationaux. Dans cet article, je pr\xc3\xa9sente une synth\xc3\xa8se critique des travaux th\xc3\xa9oriques consacr\xc3\xa9s \xc3\xa0 ce sujet et je discute quelques solutions qui ont \xc3\xa9t\xc3\xa9 sugg\xc3\xa9r\xc3\xa9es pour permettre aux \xc3\x89tats de redistribuer plus efficacement les revenus \xc3\xa0 l\xe2\x80\x99int\xc3\xa9rieur de leurs fronti\xc3\xa8res nationales, voire au sein de l\xe2\x80\x99union \xc3\xa9conomique \xc3\xa0 laquelle ils appartiennent."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['An overlapping generations model is constructed in which individual wealth is related to educational attainment, and in which liquidity constraints my induce children to invest in a sub-optimal level of education given their ability. Borrowing for educational attainment is obtained from within the family. Abilities differ among children and may be related to parental ability. Stationary state equilibria are found to exist in which children of poorer families are caught in a poverty trap because of an inability of finance their education. The role of redistributive policy is studied in this context.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper first discusses the notion of economic performance as applied to public enterprises and argues that productive efficiency is an attractive approach to performance measurement for such firms. It then presents an empirical efficiency study of postal services which is aimed at comparing productive performance indicators across countries and at testing the effect of competition and regulation on these indicators.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Despite the fact that all developed economies levy broadly-based indirect taxes alongside direct taxes, little theory is devoted to explaining the direct-indirect tax mix. Our purpose is to show that if different taxes have different evasion characteristics, some optimal tax mix emerges naturally. Assuming that only income tax can be evaded and focusing on a two-class economy, we analyze the case for supplementing optimal(nonlinear) income taxation with commodity taxation, and we develop conditions under which the latter should or should not be uniform.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper first discusses the standard reasons why private insurance cannot be expected to function well and why public intervention in or public provision of insurance can improve on private market outcomes. These arguments are based on efficiency but also on equity considerations. Then the paper turns to new developments in modern societies that might affect the balance between social and private insurance. They pertain to the current working of labor markets, to the openness of our economies and the ensuing fiscal competition, and to the crediblity and commitment problems faced by the state. The paper concludes that the public sector will find it less and less affordable to provide both insurance and assistance and recommends that it focus on the latter objective by awarding tax-financed uniform benefits on the basis of specified contingencies. The Geneva Papers on Risk and Insurance Theory (1994) 19, 81\xe2\x80\x9392. doi:10.1007/BF01371684'] ["[fre] Croissance optimale avec population fluctuante. . Cet article introduit la possibilit\xc3\xa9 d'une population fluctuante dans la th\xc3\xa9orie traditionnelle de la croissance optimale. Dans l'hypoth\xc3\xa8se o\xc3\xb9 ces fluctuations sont cycliques, on distinguera une r\xc3\xa8gle d'optimalit\xc3\xa9 \xc3\xa0 deux temps. A l'int\xc3\xa9rieur du cycle, les utilit\xc3\xa9s peuvent \xc3\xaatre pond\xc3\xa9r\xc3\xa9es de mani\xc3\xa8re quelconque selon le principe de l'optimum de Pareto. D'un cycle \xc3\xa0 l'autre, une r\xc3\xa8gle correspondant \xc3\xa0 la r\xc3\xa8gle d'or permet de r\xc3\xa9aliser le niveau d'utilit\xc3\xa9 le plus \xc3\xa9lev\xc3\xa9 pour le cycle stationnaire. [eng] Optimal growth and changing population. . This note introduces changing population within the traditional setting of optimal growth theory. Under the assumption of cyclical population changes, one derives a two-tier optimality rule. Within the cycle, individual's utilities can be arbitrarily weighted according to the Pareto principle. Across cycles, a rule analogous to the golden rule implies the highest level of utility for the stationary cycle."] [" This note gives the condition under which there is an interior optimum rate of population growth in a two-generations-overlapping model. These conditions imply complementarity both in production and in consumption. They also validate Samuelson's serendipity theorem."] [" This article compares savings behavior in a sample of seventeen OECD countries over twenty-four years. On the basis of an analysis of variance and of a life-cycle-hypothesis-based equation, the authors test the homogeneity of households' savings behavior. It appears that one cannot really speak of a homogeneous saving behavior across countries. This is a relevant finding in times of increasing economic and financial integration. Copyright 1993 by The International Association for Research in Income and Wealth."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["[spa] Formas de herencia en el debate macroecon\xc3\xb3mico contempor\xc3\xa1neo, . por Pierre Pestieau.. . En este art\xc3\xadculo se muestra c\xc3\xb3mo se integran los diferentes tipos de herencia - accidentales, altruistas, paternas y estrat\xc3\xa9gicas - en el debate relativo a la neutralidad de las pol\xc3\xadticas macroecon\xc3\xb3micas y a la eficatia din\xc3\xa1mica de los mercados en competencia. Esto pone claramente de manifiesto que la mayor\xc3\xada de tipos de herencia son mucho m\xc3\xa1s compatibles con la visi\xc3\xb3n keynesiana de un mundo donde el horizonte de los agentes es finito, que con la visi\xc3\xb3n neocl\xc3\xa1sica. Los mercados pueden ser ineficaces, pero la pol\xc3\xadtica macroecon\xc3\xb3mica puede desempe\xc3\xb1ar un papel positivo. [eng] Models of Inheritance in the Current Macroeconomic Debate, . by Pierre Pestieau.. . This paper shows how the main types of bequests - unplanned, altruistic, paternalistic and strategic - fit into the debate over the neutrality of macro-economic policies and the dynamic efficiency of competitive markets. The main conclusion is that most types of bequests are more compatible with the Keynesian view of effective macro-economic policy than with the neutrality hypothesis relying on a dynastic setting only made possible by unconstrained altruistic transfers. [fre] Formes d'h\xc3\xa9ritages dans le d\xc3\xa9bat macro-\xc3\xa9conomique contemporain, . par Pierre Pestieau.. . Cet article montre comment les diff\xc3\xa9rents types d'h\xc3\xa9ritages - accidentels, altruistes, paternalistes et strat\xc3\xa9giques - s'ins\xc3\xa8rent dans le d\xc3\xa9bat sur la neutralit\xc3\xa9 des politiques macro-\xc3\xa9conomiques et sur l'efficacit\xc3\xa9 dynamique des march\xc3\xa9s concurrentiels. Il appara\xc3\xaet clairement que la plupart de ces types sont beaucoup plus compatibles avec la vision keyn\xc3\xa9sienne d'un monde o\xc3\xb9 l'horizon des agents est fini qu'avec la vision n\xc3\xa9o-classique. Les march\xc3\xa9s peuvent \xc3\xaatre inefficaces et la politique macro-\xc3\xa9conomique avoir un r\xc3\xb4le positif. [ger] Die Erbschaftsformen in den zeitgen\xc3\xb6ssischen makro\xc3\xb6konomischen Diskussionen, . von Pierre Pestieau. . In diesem Artikel wird aufgezeigt, wie sich die verschiedenen Formen der Erbschaft (zuf\xc3\xa4llige, altruistische, paternalistische und strategische Erbschaft) in die Diskussion \xc3\xbcber die Neutralit\xc3\xa4t der makro\xc3\xb6konomischen Politiken und \xc3\xbcber die dynamische Effizienz der Wettbewerbsm\xc3\xa4rkte einf\xc3\xbcgen. Es ergibt sich klar, da\xc3\x9f die meisten dieser Erbschaftsarten viel eher mit der keynesianischen Vision einer Welt, in der der Horizont der Wirtschaftssubjekte begrenzt ist, als mit der neoklassischen Betrachtungsweise \xc3\xbcbereinstimmen. Die M\xc3\xa4rkte k\xc3\xb6nnen ineffizient sein, und die makro\xc3\xb6konomische Politik eine positive Rolle spielen."] ["[eng] Models of Inheritance and Their Implications, . by Andr\xc3\xa9 Masson, Pierre Pestieau.. . The purpose of this paper is twofold. Firstly, it provides a taxonomy of the principal models of inheritance known to economists, setting forth the usual distinction between intentional and unintentional bequests as well as various types and degrees of altruism. Secondly, it indicates what the main and specific implications of four of the main models can be in terms of redistribution and resource attributions. [ger] Erbschaftsarten und modelle und ihre Auswirkungen, . von Andr\xc3\xa9 Masson, Pierre Pestieau.. . In diesem Artikel wird f\xc3\xbcr die wichtigsten, von den \xc3\x96konomen behandelten Erbschaftsmodelle eine Taxonomie pr\xc3\xa4sentiert, bei der die klassische Unterscheidung zwischen unfreiwilligem und freiwilligem Verm\xc3\xa4chtnis sowie die verschiedenen Arten und Grade des Altruismus ber\xc3\xbccksichtigt werden. Anschlie\xc3\x9fend werden f\xc3\xbcr vier der h\xc3\xa4ufigsten Erbschaftsmodelle die speziellen Auswirkungen auf die Verm\xc3\xb6genszuwendung und umverteilung er\xc3\xb6rtert. [spa] Tipos y modelos de herencia, y sus implicaciones, . por Andr\xc3\xa9 Masson y Pierre Pestieau.. . En este art\xc3\xadculo se pr\xc3\xa9senta la taxonom\xc3\xada de los principales modelos de herencia considerados por los economistas, teniendo en cuenta la distinci\xc3\xb3n conventional entre legado involuntario y legado voluntario, al igual que los diversos tipos y grados de altruismo. Acto seguido, para los cuatro modelos de herencia m\xc3\xa1s corrientes, se presentan las implicaciones espec\xc3\xadficas que pueden tener en relaci\xc3\xb3n con la asignaci\xc3\xb3n de los recursos y la redistribuci\xc3\xb3n. [fre] Types et mod\xc3\xa8les d'h\xc3\xa9ritage et leurs implications, . par Andr\xc3\xa9 Masson, Pierre Pestieau.. . Cet article pr\xc3\xa9sente une taxonomie des principaux mod\xc3\xa8les d'h\xc3\xa9ritage consid\xc3\xa9r\xc3\xa9s par les \xc3\xa9conomistes, qui tient compte de la distinction classique entre legs involontaire et legs volontaire ainsi que des diff\xc3\xa9rents types et degr\xc3\xa9s d'altruisme. Puis il donne pour quatre des mod\xc3\xa8les d'h\xc3\xa9ritage les plus courants les implications sp\xc3\xa9cifiques qu'ils peuvent avoir en termes d'allocation des ressources et de redistribution."] ['This paper describes and discusses the taxation of wealth in the European community countries with particular emphasis on net wealth taxes and wealth transfer taxes at death. The main finding is that the contribution of these taxes to total tax revenue is minute and their effect on wealth distribution is negligible. To characterize and quantify the process of the erosion of the tax base and its inability to redistribute wealth, the authors use the example of France extensively.'] ["[eng] Three Points of View on Inheritance: Family, Property and State, . by Denis Kessler, Andr\xc3\xa9 Masson, Pierre Pestieau.. . This introductory article offers three complementary views on inheritance, in connection with three institutions: the family as a network of intergenerational relationships, the market governed by property rights and the State with its redistribution policies. The first factor shows how important it is to not to consider bequests as a separate entity, but in conjunction with other substitutable or complementary transfers: these transfers, whether private or public, in line of ascent or descent, in cash or in kind, have undergone (and will undergo) a number of changes over time. An attempt is then made to assess the quantitative effect of inheritance on wealth accumulation and inequality: is the bulk of wealth held at a given time due to intergenerational transfers or the result of past savings of existing generations? Is inheritance the major source of the concentration of wealth or the main barrier to social mobility? Lastly, a number of arguments concerning estate taxation and regulation are discussed, confronting liberal and reformist points of view on the subject. [ger] Drei Aspekte der Erbschaft: Familie, Eigentum, Staat, . von Denis Kessler, Andr\xc3\xa9 Masson, Pierre Pestieau.. . In diesem einleitenden Artikel werden drei komplement\xc3\xa4re Aspekte der Erbschaft anhand von drei Instanzen behandelt: die Familie, der Raum der Beziehungen zwischen den Generationen; der dem Eigentumsrecht unterliegende Markt; der Staat und seine Umverteilungspolitiken. Mit Hilfe des ersten Aspekts wird die Notwendigkeit aufgezeigt, die Erbschaft im Zusammenhang mit s\xc3\xa4mtlichen verm\xc3\xb6gens\xc3\xbcbertragungen zwischen den Generationen zu sehen, die an ihre Stelle treten oder sie erg\xc3\xa4nzen k\xc3\xb6nnen; diese \xc3\x9cbertragungen, die \xc3\xb6ffentlich oder priv\xc3\xa2t, an die Aszendenten oder die Deszendenten, in Bargeld oder in Sachg\xc3\xbctern erfolgen k\xc3\xb6nnen, haben sich recht unterschiedlich entwickelt und werden dies auch weiterhin tun. Anhand folgender Fragen wird anschlie\xc3\x9fend versucht, die wirtschaftliche Rolle der Erbschaft bei der Verm\xc3\xb6gensanh\xc3\xa4ufung und verteilung zu analy sieren: Ist das vorhandene Verm\xc3\xb4gen eher auf die von den vorausgegangenen Generationen . \xc3\xbcbertragenen G\xc3\xbcter zur\xc3\xbcckzuf\xc3\xbchren oder ist es der Spart\xc3\xa4tigkeit der heutigen Generationen zu verdanken? 1st die Erbschaft der wichtigste Faktor bei der Verm\xc3\xb6genskonzentration und stellt sie ein Hindernis fur die soziale Mobilit\xc3\xa4t dar? Im Anschlu\xc3\x9f daran werden einige gro\xc3\x9fe Themen des Steuer- und des Erbrechts er\xc3\xb6rtert, bei denen die lib\xc3\xa9rale und die reformistische Philosophie einander gegen\xc3\xbcbergestellt werden. [fre] Trois vues sur l'h\xc3\xa9ritage : la famille, la propri\xc3\xa9t\xc3\xa9, l'Etat, . par Denis Kessler, Andr\xc3\xa9 Masson, Pierre Pestieau.. . Cet article introductif propose trois regards compl\xc3\xa9mentaires sur l'h\xc3\xa9ritage au travers de trois instances : la famille, espace de relations entre g\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9rations, le march\xc3\xa9 r\xc3\xa9gi par le droit de propri\xc3\xa9t\xc3\xa9, l'Etat et ses politiques de redistribution. Le premier montre la n\xc3\xa9cessit\xc3\xa9 de replacer l'h\xc3\xa9ritage dans l'ensemble des transferts interg\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9rationnels qui peuvent lui \xc3\xaatre substituables ou compl\xc3\xa9mentaires : ces transferts, publics ou priv\xc3\xa9s, ascendants ou descendants, en esp\xc3\xa8ces ou en nature, ont connu (et conna\xc3\xaetront) des \xc3\xa9volutions fort diverses. On tente ensuite d'appr\xc3\xa9cier le r\xc3\xb4le \xc3\xa9conomique de l'h\xc3\xa9ritage sur l'accumulation et la r\xc3\xa9partition des fortunes : le patrimoine existant provient-il plut\xc3\xb4t des biens transmis par les g\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9rations pr\xc3\xa9c\xc3\xa9dentes ou de l'effort d'\xc3\xa9pargne des g\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9rations actuelles ? L'h\xc3\xa9ritage est-il le principal facteur de concentration des fortunes et freine-t-il la mobilit\xc3\xa9 sociale ? On pr\xc3\xa9sente enfin quelques grands d\xc3\xa9bats d'id\xc3\xa9es concernant la fiscalit\xc3\xa9 et la r\xc3\xa9glementation des successions qui opposent les philosophies lib\xc3\xa9rale et r\xc3\xa9formiste. [spa] Tres puntos de vista en relati\xc3\xb3n con la herencia: la familia, la propiedad y el Estado, . por Denis Kessler, Andr\xc3\xa9 Masson y Pierre Pestieau. . En este art\xc3\xadculo introductivo se presentan tres puntos de vista complementarios en relaci\xc3\xb3n con la herencia, a trav\xc3\xa9s de tres entidades: la familia, n\xc3\xbacleo de relaci\xc3\xb3n entre generaciones, el mercado regido por el derecho de propiedad, el Estado y sus pol\xc3\xadticas de redistribuci\xc3\xb3n. En el primero se muestra la necesidad de situar la herencia en el conjunto de transferencias intergeneracionales que pueden sustituirla o complementarla. Estas transferencias, p\xc3\xbablicas o privadas, ascendentes o descendentes, en met\xc3\xa1lico o en especie, han tenido (y tendr\xc3\xa1n) evoluciones sumamente diversas. Acto seguido se intenta apreciar la funci\xc3\xb3n econ\xc3\xb3mica de la herencia en la acumulaci\xc3\xb3n y la distribuci\xc3\xb3n de las fortunas: \xc2\xbfproviene el patrimonio existente de los bienes transmitidos por las generaciones anteriores o del esfuerzo ahorrativo de las generaciones actuales? \xc2\xbfEs la herentia el principal factor de concentraci\xc3\xb3n de las fortunas? \xc2\xbfConstituye un freno para la movilidad social? Por \xc3\xbaltimo se presentan diversos debates relativos a la fiscalidad y a la reglamentaci\xc3\xb3n de las sucesiones, que oponen la filosof\xc3\xada liberal a la reformista."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The purpose of this paper is to show within a simple setting how the demand for children may be affected by the type of parent-children interaction, ranging from conflict with threat to more harmonious settlement. We consider the case where parents offer bequests to their children in exchange for attention. The type of parent-child interaction is formalized by the solution concept that is used to determine the bequest-attention allocation for any given number of children. The main positive finding of the paper is that there is a bias toward large families, counteracted by the possibility of a pure preference for small families and the costs of having children. Copyright 1991 by The London School of Economics and Political Science.'] ['The purpose of this paper is to provide for both life and non life insurance a measurement of economies of scale and an assessment of productive performance of French companies. We use a translog cost function to check the presence of scale economies and a parametric approach to construct our yardstick of productive efficiency. Our panel data covers 84 life and 243 non life companies for the period 1984\xe2\x80\x9389. The main findings indicate both the existence of increasing returns to scale and a wide dispersion in the rates of inefficiency across companies. Those two results are shown to be closely linked to a number of characteristics of the companies studied, particularly their institutional form.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['[eng] Tests for Models of Inheritance: A Critical Inventory, . by Andr\xc3\xa9 Masson, Pierre Pestieau.. . In order to assess the empirical relevance of a number of bequest models to be found in economic literature, this article presents an overview of the predominantly Anglo-Saxon tests conducted on these models over the past twelve years. After a brief account of the data used, eight general tests are considered, making it possible to "reject" some reasons for bequest while accepting others indiscriminately, after which nine specific tests are considered, the purpose of which is to determine more specifically the relevance of one particular form of bequest. Lastly, the significance of the results obtained is examined and the reasons why it is so difficult to draw clear-cut conclusions is discussed: model not fully identified, data shortcomings... [ger] Tests der Erbschaftsmodelle: eine kritische Bestandsaufnahme, . von Andr\xc3\xa9 Masson, Pierre Pestieau.. . Um den Grad der empirischen G\xc3\xbcltigkeit der verschiedenen in der Wirtschaftsfachliteratur vorgeschlagenen Erbschaftsmodelle beurteilen zu k\xc3\xb6nnen, wird in diesem Artikel eine Bestandsaufnahme der vorwiegend angels\xc3\xa4chsischen Tests vorgenommen, denen diese im Laufe der letzten zw\xc3\xb6lf Jahre unterzogen worden sind. Nach einer Erfassung der verschiedenen Arten der benutzten Daten erh\xc3\xa4lt man somit acht generelle Tests, mit denen sich bestimmte Gr\xc3\xbcnde f\xc3\xbcr die \xc3\x9cbertragung ausschlie\xc3\x9fen, daf\xc3\xbcr aber mehrere andere nicht differenzierbare Gr\xc3\xbcnde ausmachen lassen, sowie neun spezielle Tests, mit denen eine genauere Beurteilung der G\xc3\xbcltigkeit einer bestimmten Erbschaftsform angestrebt wird. Behandelt werden anschlie\xc3\x9fend die Tragweite der erhaltenen Ergebnisse und die Gr\xc3\xbcnde f\xc3\xbcr die Schwierigkeit, zu eindeutigen Schlu\xc3\x9ffolgerungen zu gelangen: unvollst\xc3\xa4ndige Identifizierung der Modelle, Mangel an Daten... [fre] Tests des mod\xc3\xa8les d\'h\xc3\xa9ritage : un inventaire critique, . par Andr\xc3\xa9 Masson, Pierre Pestieau.. . Pour tenter d\'appr\xc3\xa9cier le degr\xc3\xa9 de validit\xc3\xa9 empirique des diff\xc3\xa9rents mod\xc3\xa8les d\'h\xc3\xa9ritage propos\xc3\xa9s dans la litt\xc3\xa9rature \xc3\xa9conomique, cet article dresse le bilan des tests, \xc3\xa0 dominante anglo-saxonne, dont ils ont fait l\'objet au cours des douze derni\xc3\xa8res ann\xc3\xa9es. Apr\xc3\xa8s avoir recens\xc3\xa9 les diff\xc3\xa9rents types de donn\xc3\xa9es utilis\xc3\xa9es, on envisage ainsi huit tests g\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9raux, qui permettent "d\'\xc3\xa9carter" certains motifs de transmission mais d\'en "retenir" plusieurs autres (sans pouvoir les diff\xc3\xa9rencier), et neuf tests sp\xc3\xa9cifiques, qui cherchent \xc3\xa0 appr\xc3\xa9cier plus pr\xc3\xa9cis\xc3\xa9ment la validit\xc3\xa9 d\'une forme d\'h\xc3\xa9ritage particuli\xc3\xa8re. On s\'interroge enfin sur la port\xc3\xa9e des r\xc3\xa9sultats obtenus et sur les difficult\xc3\xa9s d\'obtenir des conclusions tranch\xc3\xa9es : identification incompl\xc3\xa8te des mod\xc3\xa8les, carences des donn\xc3\xa9es... [spa] Pruebas de modelos de herencia: inventario cr\xc3\xadtico, . por Andr\xc3\xa9 Masson y Pierre Pestieau .. . Para tratar de apreciar el grado de validez emp\xc3\xadrica de los diversos modelos de herencia propuestos por la literatura econ\xc3\xb3mica, se pr\xc3\xa9senta en este art\xc3\xadculo un balance de las pruebas, predominantemente anglosajonas, a las cuales se han sometido dichos modelos en los \xc3\xbaltimos doce a\xc3\xb1os. Tras la presentaci\xc3\xb3n de los datos utilizados, se consideran ocho pruebas generales que permiten "eliminar" determinados motivos de transmisi\xc3\xb3n y "tener en cuenta" otros motivos (sin que sea posible diferenciarlos), y nueve pruebas espec\xc3\xadf\xc3\xaecas para tratar de apreciar con mayor precisi\xc3\xb3n la validez de una forma de herencia particular. Por \xc3\xbaltimo los autores se interrogan acerca del alcance de los resultados obtenidos y las razones de la dif\xc3\xaecultad que plantea la obtenci\xc3\xb3n de conclusiones precisas: identificaci\xc3\xb3n incompleta de los modelos, carencia de datos, etc.'] ['[fre] Les legs volontaires en France : \xc3\xa9valuation et explication, . par Sergio Perelman, Pierre Pestieau.. . Cet article se propose d\'\xc3\xa9valuer l\'importance des legs volontaires sur la base d\'une enqu\xc3\xaate de l\'Insee sur la structure des actifs financiers de 5 600 m\xc3\xa9nages. Cette mesure est alors analys\xc3\xa9e pour voir si elle correspond \xc3\xa0 nos a priori sur les legs intentionnels et si elle est conforme \xc3\xa0 quelques mod\xc3\xa8les d\'h\xc3\xa9ritage. [eng] Planned Bequests in France: Assessment and Determinants, . by Sergio Perelman, Pierre Pestieau.. . The purpose of this paper is to determine the proportion of planned bequests in France on the basis of a survey of the financial assets of 5600 households. These data are then analyzed to determine whether or not they correspond to our preconceived ideas on intentional legacies and whether or not they comply with some of the standard models of inheritance. [spa] Legados voluntarios en Francia : evaluaci\xc3\xb3n y explicaci\xc3\xb3n, . por Sergio Perelman y Pierre Pestieau.. . El presente art\xc3\xadcule tiene por objeto evaluar la importancia de los legados voluntarios a partir de un estudio realizado por el Insee a prop\xc3\xb3sito de la estructura de los activos financieros de 5 600 unidades familiares. Esta estructura se analiza para determinar si corresponde o no nuestros priori sobre los legados intencionales y si guarda conf ormidad con algunos modelos de herencia. [ger] Das freiwillige Verm\xc3\xa4chtnis in Frankreich: Bewertung und Erkl\xc3\xa4rung, . von Sergio Perelman, Pierre Pestieau.. . In diesem Artikel soll der Umfang der freiwilligen Verm\xc3\xa4chtniszuwendungen auf der Grundlage einer Erhebung ermittelt werden, die das Nationale Institut f\xc3\xbcr Statistik und Wirtschaftsstudien "Insee" \xc3\xbcber die Struktur des Geldverm\xc3\xb6gens von 5.600 Haushalten durchgef\xc3\xbchrt hat. Diese Messung wird anschlie\xc3\x9fend analysiert, um zu \xc3\xbcberpr\xc3\xbcfen, ob sie einerseits unseren apriorischen Erkenntnissen \xc3\xbcber die beabsichtigten Verm\xc3\xa4chtniszuwendungen und andererseits einigen Erbschaftsmodellen entspricht.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The authors show that, on the basis of a noncooperative equilibrium whereby pure public goods are financed by voluntary private contributions, a centralized agency may induce an efficient solution by an appropriate choice of subsidy on the individuals' contributions. They also show that a noncooperative equilibrium with positive contributions is efficient if, and only if, the individual per unit subsidies sum to n - 1, where n is the number of individuals. They finally establish a correspondence between noncooperative and Lindahl equilibria."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The purpose of this paper is twofold. First, it extends previous models of non-cooperative private funding of pure public goods by allowing both for distortionary taxation of private goods and for subsidies based on contributions to the public goods. Second, it clarifies the type of behavioural and informational assumptions needed to result in neutrality of lump-sum and distortionary policies. The analysis is developed in the context of fiscal federalism.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper derives the optimal commodity tax formula and the tax reform rule that should be used in a situation of (orthodox Keynesian) unemployment. The setting considered is a four-good, one-individual model with fixed real wage implying an excess supply of labor. The presentation is very simple and based on intuitive and graphical arguments. The emphasis is on comparing the authors' results with the more traditional results derived under full employment. Copyright 1989 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper incorporates the case of a variable number of children in a simple model of the distribution of inherited wealth. In particular, the possibility of childless couples, and hence of bequests from relatives other than parents (i.e., "collateral bequests") is considered. Within such a setting, two questions are raised. First, do collateral bequests increase the distributional inequality of wealth? Second, should one adopt inheritance tax rates that depend on the inheritor\'s blood relationship to the donor? In other words, does there exist an economic justification for differential inheritance taxation such as it is usual in many countries (e.g. France and Germany).'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["[eng] Public enterprise and government ownership . . This paper adresses the following question : is government ownership the main distinctive feature of public enterprises with respect to private enterprises ? To put it in another and a more challenging way, is it enough to transfer ownership of assets frorn the public to the private sector to really privatise a public enterprise and thus to increase its industrial performance ? We argue that privatisation as such does not necessarily imply the removal of restrictions on competition and thus can be harnvful in terms of social efficiency. We also show that when privatising natural monopolies, the State can loose twice by setting its assets at too low a price and by letting the new private owner diverge from efficiency. [fre] Entreprise et propri\xc3\xa9t\xc3\xa9 publiques. . L'entreprise publique trouve-t-elle son fondement dans la propri\xc3\xa9t\xc3\xa9 publique ? A l'heure o\xc3\xb9 il est tant question de d\xc3\xa9nationalisation, il serait tentant de r\xc3\xa9pondre par l'affirmative. L'objet de cet article est pourtant d'indiquer que le mode de propri\xc3\xa9t\xc3\xa9 n'est qu'un crit\xc3\xa8re parmi d'autres dans la distinction entre entreprises publiques et priv\xc3\xa9es. Ce crit\xc3\xa8re est cependant invoqu\xc3\xa9 lorsqu'il s'agit de cerner les sources d'inefficacit\xc3\xa9 de la production publique et les moyens d'y rem\xc3\xa9dier."] [' This paper shows that public debt issue may be regressive given the following three conditions: that the number of children varies among families; that a bequest motive implies operative intergenerational transfers; and that debt finance of government expenditure postpones its actual payment to the next generation. Though perhaps minor, this effect of fertility differentials ought to be considered when assessing the overall distributive incidence of debt finance as compared to tax finance. Copyright 1987 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper provides a short survey of the theoretical discussion on the equivalence between taxation and debt financing of public expenditures. It stresses that the key assumption in this debate concerns the behaviour of individuals towards their economic environment and public policy. Then, it turns to an empirical test of equivalence based on a new sample of 19 OECD countries for the period 1961-1983. The conclusion is consistent with previous studies: the case of equivalence between tax and debt financing is not established.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["The paper presents a model of income distribution that makes use of Gibrat's law of proportionate effect to explain the way income is distributed and how the distribution changes over time in a population made of families characterized by a specific life cycle and initial endowment. The stochastic factor in each period is shown to be the result of deliberate choices by individual decision-makers regarding their savings, investment, and bequests given their inherited wealth and natural ability. The source of randomness is two-fold: uncertainty about the rates of return and randomness of the distribution of natural skills."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["[fre] Depuis plusieurs ann\xc3\xa9es, on assiste \xc3\xa0 un d\xc3\xa9bat pour savoir si les syst\xc3\xa8mes publics de retraite r\xc3\xa9duisent l'\xc3\xa9pargne des m\xc3\xa9nages. Cette note montre que le mod\xc3\xa8le du cycle de vie, qui sous-tend la plupart des \xc3\xa9tudes empiriques sur le sujet n'est pas ad\xc3\xa9quat pour traiter l'\xc3\xa9pargne des retrait\xc3\xa9s. A partir d'une \xc3\xa9valuation patri\xc2\xadmoniale des droits \xc3\xa0 la retraite en Belgique, elle indique que les syst\xc3\xa8mes de pensions publiques augmentent en fait l'\xc3\xa9pargne des retrait\xc3\xa9s et dans la mesure o\xc3\xb9 cette cat\xc3\xa9gorie est importante, l'\xc3\xa9pargne totale des m\xc3\xa9nages pourrait tr\xc3\xa8s bien ne pas diminuer. [eng] priate to deal with the saving behaviour of the retired aged. Using some estimates for- Belgian social security wealth, it is shown that social security in fact increases the savings of the aged. Moreover if this category is important enough overall private saving could very well not decrease at all."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" In this paper, we have tried to explain why voters can turn down a measure which is supposed to increase the disposable income of a large majority of families. The reasons we advanced were the following: 14 See Downs (1957). 15 See Frey (1971) and various comments on his paper in the subsequent series ofPublic Choice. 16 An example of this is the misleading advertisement used in the Massachusetts campaign against the tax reform: \xe2\x80\x9cDon't be fooled\xe2\x80\x94The Graduated Income Tax is just another tax increase\xe2\x80\x94it means more for them, and less for you ... Again!\xe2\x80\x9d. -- the increase in disposable income is small for the large middle-income group; -- some people are reluctant to back a measure aimed at helping low-income groups further; -- some do not want to burden too much the high income group of which they hope, eventually to be a part; -- finally, many voters are subject to an intensive campaign of advertisement which focuses their attention on irrelevant issues. One implication of this line of explanation is that public financing of political campaigns, more realistic expectations of upward mobility and more altruism among individuals would probably increase the chances of progressive tax reform. Obviously these three points would merit further research. Copyright Center for Study of Public Choice Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University 1975"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']