 [' type="main" xml:id="obes12046-abs-0001"&gt;  This article considers some of the technical issues involved in using the global vector autoregression (GVAR) approach to construct a multi-country rational expectations (RE) model and illustrates them with a new Keynesian model for 33 countries estimated with quarterly data over the period 1980\xe2\x80\x932011. The issues considered are: the measurement of steady states; the determination of exchange rates and the specification of the short-run country-specific models; the identification and estimation of the model subject to the theoretical constraints required for a determinate rational expectations solution; the solution of a large RE model; the structure and estimation of the covariance matrix and the simulation of shocks. The model used as an illustration shows that global demand and supply shocks are the most important drivers of output, inflation and interest rates in the long run. By contrast, monetary or exchange rate shocks have only a short-run impact in the evolution of the world economy. The article also shows the importance of international connections, directly as well as indirectly through spillover effects. Overall, ignoring global inter-connections as country-specific models do, could give rise to misleading conclusions.'] [" SUMMARY This paper develops a long\xe2\x80\x90run output relation for a major oil\xe2\x80\x90exporting economy where the oil income\xe2\x80\x90to\xe2\x80\x90output ratio remains sufficiently high over a prolonged period. It extends the stochastic growth model developed in Binder and Pesaran (1999) by including oil exports as an additional factor in the capital accumulation process. The paper distinguishes between the two cases where the growth of oil income, g-super-o, is less than the natural growth rate (the sum of the population growth, n, and the growth of technical progress, g), and when g-super-o \xe2\x89\xa5 g + n. Under the former, the effects of oil income on the economy's steady growth rate will vanish eventually, while under the latter oil income enters the long\xe2\x80\x90run output equation with a coefficient which is equal to the share of capital if it is further assumed that the underlying production technology can be represented by a Cobb\xe2\x80\x93Douglas production function. The long\xe2\x80\x90run theory is tested using quarterly data on nine major oil economies. Overall, the test results support the long\xe2\x80\x90run theory, with the existence of long\xe2\x80\x90run relations between real output, foreign output and real oil income established for six of the nine economies considered. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2012 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd."] ['This paper investigates the problem of aggregation in the case of large linear dynamic panels, where each micro unit is potentially related to all other micro units, and where micro innovations are allowed to be cross sectionally dependent. Following Pesaran (2003), an optimal aggregate function is derived and used (i) to establish conditions under which Granger\xe2\x80\x99s (1980) conjecture regarding the long memory properties of aggregate variables from \xe2\x80\x98a very large scale dynamic, econometric model\xe2\x80\x99 holds, and (ii) to show which distributional features of micro parameters can be identified from the aggregate model. The paper also derives impulse response functions for the aggregate variables, distinguishing between the effects of composite macro and aggregated idiosyncratic shocks. Some of the findings of the paper are illustrated by Monte Carlo experiments. The paper also contains an empirical application to consumer price inflation in Germany, France and Italy, and re-examines the extent to which \xe2\x80\x98observed\xe2\x80\x99 inflation persistence at the aggregate level is due to aggregation and/or common unobserved factors. Our findings suggest that dynamic heterogeneity as well as persistent common factors are needed for explaining the observed persistence of the aggregate inflation.'] ['In this paper we consider the problem of interpreting the signs of the estimated coefficients in multivariate time series regressions where the regressors are correlated. Using a continuous time model, we argue that focusing on the signs of individual coefficients in such regressions could be misleading and argue in favour of allowing for the indirect effects that arise due to the historical correlations amongst the regressors. For estimation from discrete time data we show that the sign of the total impact, including the direct and indirect effects, of a regressor can be obtained using a simple regression that only includes the regressor of interest.'] [' This paper extends the analysis of infinite dimensional vector autoregressive (IVAR) models proposed in Chudik and Pesaran (2011) to the case where one of the variables or the cross-section units in the IVAR model is dominant or pervasive. It is an important extension from empirical as well theoretical perspectives. In the theory of networks a dominant unit is the centre node of a star network and arises as an efficient outcome of a distance-based utility model. Empirically, the extension poses a number of technical challenges that goes well beyond the analysis of IVAR models provided in Chudik and Pesaran. This is because the dominant unit influences the rest of the variables in the IVAR model both directly and indirectly, and its effects do not vanish as the dimension of the model (N) tends to infinity. The dominant unit acts as a dynamic factor in the regressions of the non-dominant units and yields an infinite order distributed lag relationship between the two types of units. Despite this it is shown that the effects of the dominant unit as well as those of the neighborhood units can be consistently estimated by running augmented least squares regressions that include distributed lag functions of the dominant unit and its neighbors (if any). The asymptotic distribution of the estimators is derived and their small sample properties investigated by means of Monte Carlo experiments.'] ['This paper extends the cross-sectionally augmented panel unit root test (CIPS) proposed by Pesaran (2007) to the case of a multifactor error structure, and proposes a new panel unit root test based on a simple average of cross-sectionally augmented Sargan\xe2\x80\x93Bhargava statistics (CSB). The basic idea is to exploit information regarding the m unobserved factors that are shared by k observed time series in addition to the series under consideration. Initially, we develop the tests assuming that m0, the true number of factors, is known and show that the limit distribution of the tests does not depend on any nuisance parameters, so long as k\xe2\x89\xa5m0\xe2\x88\x921. Small sample properties of the tests are investigated by Monte Carlo experiments and are shown to be satisfactory. Particularly, the proposed CIPS and CSB tests have the correct size for all combinations of the cross section (N) and time series (T) dimensions considered. The power of both tests rises with N and T, although the CSB test performs better than the CIPS test for smaller sample sizes. The various testing procedures are illustrated with empirical applications to real interest rates and real equity prices across countries.'] [' This article is concerned with local identification of individual parameters of dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) models estimated by Bayesian methods. Identification is often judged by a comparison of the posterior distribution of a parameter with its prior. However, these can differ even when the parameter is not identified. Instead, we propose two Bayesian indicators of identification. The first follows a suggestion by Poirier of comparing the posterior density of the parameter of interest with the posterior expectation of its prior conditional on the remaining parameters. The second examines the rate at which the posterior precision of the parameter gets updated with the sample size, using data simulated at the parameter point of interest for an increasing sequence of sample sizes ( T). For identified parameters, the posterior precision increases at rate T . For parameters that are either unidentified or are weakly identified, the posterior precision may get updated but its rate of update will be slower than T . We use empirical examples to demonstrate that these methods are useful in practice. This article has online supplementary material.'] ['This paper considers the problem of forecasting under continuous and discrete structural breaks and proposes weighting observations to obtain optimal forecasts in the MSFE sense. We derive optimal weights for one step ahead forecasts. Under continuous breaks, our approach largely recovers exponential smoothing weights. Under discrete breaks, we provide analytical expressions for optimal weights in models with a single regressor, and asymptotically valid weights for models with more than one regressor. It is shown that in these cases the optimal weight is the same across observations within a given regime and differs only across regimes. In practice, where information on structural breaks is uncertain, a forecasting procedure based on robust optimal weights is proposed. The relative performance of our proposed approach is investigated using Monte Carlo experiments and an empirical application to forecasting real GDP using the yield curve across nine industrial economies.'] ["This paper presents an error-correcting macroeconometric model for the Iranian economy estimated using a new quarterly data set over the period 1979Q1\xe2\x80\x932006Q4. It builds on a recent paper by the authors, Esfahani, Mohaddes, and Pesaran (in press), which develops a theoretical long-run growth model for major oil exporting economies. The core variables included in this paper are real output, real money balances, inflation, exchange rate, oil exports, and foreign real output, although the role of investment and consumption are also analysed in a sub-model. The paper finds clear evidence for the existence of two long-run relations: an output equation as predicted by the theory and a standard real money demand equation with inflation acting as a proxy for the (missing) market interest rate. The results show that real output in the long run is influenced by oil exports and foreign output. However, it is also found that inflation has a significant negative long-run effect on real GDP, which is suggestive of economic inefficiencies and is matched by a negative association between inflation and the investment\xe2\x80\x93output ratio. Finally, the results of impulse responses show that the Iranian economy adjusts quite quickly to the shocks in foreign output and oil exports, which could be partly due to the relatively underdeveloped nature of Iran's financial markets."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Applications of panel unit root tests have become commonplace in empirical economics, yet there are ambiguities as how best to interpret the test results. This note clarifies that rejection of the panel unit root hypothesis should be interpreted as evidence that a statistically significant proportion of the units are stationary. Accordingly, in the event of a rejection, and in applications where the time dimension of the panel is relatively large, it recommends the test outcome to be augmented with an estimate of the proportion of the cross-section units for which the individual unit root tests are rejected. The economic importance of the rejection can be measured by the magnitude of this proportion.'] ['This paper investigates how changes in trade linkages between China, Latin America, and the rest of the world have altered the transmission of international business cycles to Latin America. Evidence based on a GVAR model for five large Latin American economies shows that the long-term impact of a China GDP shock on the typical Latin American economy has increased by three times since the mid-1990s, while the longterm impact of a US GDP shock has halved, while the transmission of shocks to LatinAmerica and the rest of emerging Asia GDP (excluding China and India) has not changed. These changes owe more changes in China\xc2\xb4s impact on Latin America\xc2\xb4s traditional and largest trading partners than to increased direct bilateral trade linkages boosted by the decade-long commodity price boom. These findings have important implications for both Latin America and the international business cycle.'] ['The presence of cross-sectionally correlated error terms invalidates much inferential theory of panel data models. Recently, work by Pesaran (2006) has suggested a method which makes use of cross-sectional averages to provide valid inference in the case of stationary panel regressions with a multifactor error structure. This paper extends this work and examines the important case where the unobservable common factors follow unit root processes. The extension to I(1) processes is remarkable on two counts. First, it is of great interest to note that while intermediate results needed for deriving the asymptotic distribution of the panel estimators differ between the I(1) and I(0) cases, the final results are surprisingly similar. This is in direct contrast to the standard distributional results for I(1) processes that radically differ from those for I(0) processes. Second, it is worth noting the significant extra technical demands required to prove the new results. The theoretical findings are further supported for small samples via an extensive Monte Carlo study. In particular, the results of the Monte Carlo study suggest that the cross-sectional-average-based method is robust to a wide variety of data generation processes and has lower biases than the alternative estimation methods considered in the paper.'] [' In this article we consider combining forecasts generated from the same model but over different estimation windows. We develop theoretical results for random walks with breaks in the drift and volatility and for a linear regression model with a break in the slope parameter. Averaging forecasts over different estimation windows leads to a lower bias and root mean square forecast error (RMSFE) compared with forecasts based on a single estimation window for all but the smallest breaks. An application to weekly returns on 20 equity index futures shows that averaging forecasts over estimation windows leads to a smaller RMSFE than some competing methods.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper presents a simple model of state-dependent pricing that allows identification of the relative importance of the degree of price rigidity that is inherent to the price setting mechanism (intrinsic) and that which is due to the price\xe2\x80\x99s driving variables (extrinsic). Using two data sets consisting of a large fraction of the price quotes used to compute the Belgian and French CPI, we are able to assess the role of intrinsic and extrinsic price stickiness in explaining the occurrence and magnitude of price changes at the outlet level. We find that infrequent price changes are not necessarily associated with large adjustment costs. Indeed, extrinsic rigidity appears to be significant in many cases. We also find that asymmetry in the price adjustment could be due to trends in marginal costs and/or desired mark-ups rather than asymmetric cost of adjustment bands.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["This paper proposes a novel approach for dealing with the 'curse of dimensionality' in the case of infinite-dimensional vector autoregressive (IVAR) models. It is assumed that each unit or variable in the IVAR is related to a small number of neighbors and a large number of non-neighbors. The neighborhood effects are fixed and do not change with the number of units (N), but the coefficients of non-neighboring units are restricted to vanish in the limit as N tends to infinity. Problems of estimation and inference in a stationary IVAR model with an unknown number of unobserved common factors are investigated. A cross-section augmented least-squares (CALS) estimator is proposed and its asymptotic distribution is derived. Satisfactory small-sample properties are documented by Monte Carlo experiments. An empirical illustration shows the statistical significance of dynamic spillover effects in modeling of US real house prices across the neighboring states."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper considers methods for estimating the slope coefficients in large panel data models that are robust to the presence of various forms of error cross-section dependence. It introduces a general framework where error cross-section dependence may arise because of unobserved common effects and/or error spill-over effects due to spatial or other forms of local dependencies. Initially, this paper focuses on a panel regression model where the idiosyncratic errors are spatially dependent and possibly serially correlated, and derives the asymptotic distributions of the mean group and pooled estimators under heterogeneous and homogeneous slope coefficients, and for these estimators proposes non-parametric variance matrix estimators. The paper then considers the more general case of a panel data model with a multifactor error structure and spatial error correlations. Under this framework, the Common Correlated Effects (CCE) estimator, recently advanced by Pesaran (2006), continues to yield estimates of the slope coefficients that are consistent and asymptotically normal. Small sample properties of the estimators under various patterns of cross-section dependence, including spatial forms, are investigated by Monte Carlo experiments. Results show that the CCE approach works well in the presence of weak and/or strong cross-sectionally correlated errors.'] ['This paper introduces the concepts of time-specific weak and strong cross section dependence. A double-indexed process is said to be cross sectionally weakly dependent at a given point in time, t, if its weighted average along the cross section dimension (N) converges to its expectation in quadratic mean, as N is increased without bounds for all weights that satisfy certain \xe2\x80\x98granularity\xe2\x80\x99 conditions. Relationship with the notions of weak and strong common factors is investigated and an application to the estimation of panel data models with an infinite number of weak factors and a finite number of strong factors is also considered. The paper concludes with a set of Monte Carlo experiments where the small sample properties of estimators based on principal components and CCE estimators are investigated and compared under various assumptions on the nature of the unobserved common effects.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper provides a method for the analysis of the spatial and temporal diffusion of shocks in a dynamic system. We use changes in real house prices within the UK economy at the level of regions to illustrate its use. Adjustment to shocks involves both a region specific and a spatial effect. Shocks to a dominant region - London - are propagated contemporaneously and spatially to other regions. They in turn impact on other regions with a delay. We allow for lagged effects to echo back to the dominant region. London in turn is influenced by international developments through its link to New York and other financial centers. It is shown that New York house prices have a direct effect on London house prices. We analyse the effect of shocks using generalised spatio-temporal impulse responses. These highlight the diffusion of shocks both over time (as with the conventional impulse responses) and over space.'] ['This paper conducts a broad-based comparison of iterated and direct multi-period forecasting approaches applied to both univariate and multivariate models in the form of parsimonious factor-augmented vector autoregressions. To account for serial correlation in the residuals of the multi-period direct forecasting models we propose a new SURE-based estimation method and modified Akaike information criteria for model selection. Empirical analysis of the 170 variables studied by Marcellino, Stock and Watson (2006) shows that information in factors helps improve forecasting performance for most types of economic variables although it can also lead to larger biases. It also shows that SURE estimation and finite-sample modifications to the Akaike information criterion can improve the performance of the direct multi-period forecasts.'] ['Modelling of conditional volatilities and correlations across asset returns is an integral part of portfolio decision making and risk management. Over the past three decades there has been a trend towards increased asset return correlations across markets, a trend which has been accentuated during the recent financial crisis. We shall examine the nature of asset return correlations using weekly returns on futures markets and investigate the extent to which multivariate volatility models proposed in the literature can be used to formally characterize and quantify market risk. In particular, we ask how adequate these models are for modelling market risk at times of financial crisis. In doing so we consider a multivariate t version of the Gaussian dynamic conditional correlation (DCC) model proposed by Engle (2002), and show that the t-DCC model passes the usual diagnostic tests based on probability integral transforms, but fails the value at risk (VaR) based diagnostics when applied to the post 2007 period that includes the recent financial crisis.'] ['This paper provides an empirical analysis of changes in real house prices in the USA using State level data. It examines the extent to which real house prices at the State level are driven by fundamentals such as real per capita disposable income, as well as by common shocks, and determines the speed of adjustment of real house prices to macroeconomic and local disturbances. We take explicit account of both cross-sectional dependence and heterogeneity. This allows us to find a cointegrating relationship between real house prices and real per capita incomes with coefficients (1,-1), as predicted by the theory. We are also able to identify a significant negative effect for a net borrowing cost variable, and a significant positive effect for the State level population growth on changes in real house prices. Using this model we then examine the role of spatial factors, in particular, the effect of contiguous states by use of a weighting matrix. We are able to identify a significant spatial effect, even after controlling for State specific real incomes, and allowing for a number of unobserved common factors. We do, however, find evidence of departures from long run equilibrium in the housing markets in a number of States notably California, New York, Massachusetts, and to a lesser extent Connecticut, Rhode Island, Oregon and Washington State.'] ['This paper considers the problem of forecasting economic and financial variables across a large number of countries in the global economy. To this end a global vector autoregressive (GVAR) model, previously estimated by Dees, di Mauro, Pesaran, and Smith (2007) and Dees, Holly, Pesaran, and Smith (2007) over the period 1979Q1-2003Q4, is used to generate out-of-sample forecasts one and four quarters ahead for real output, inflation, real equity prices, exchange rates and interest rates over the period 2004Q1-2005Q4. Forecasts are obtained for 134 variables from 26 regions, which are made up of 33 countries and cover about 90% of the world output. The forecasts are compared to typical benchmarks: univariate autoregressive and random walk models. Building on the forecast combination literature, the effects of model and estimation uncertainty on forecast outcomes are examined by pooling forecasts obtained from different GVAR models estimated over alternative sample periods. Given the size of the modelling problem, and the heterogeneity of the economies considered-industrialised, emerging, and less developed countries-as well as the very real likelihood of possibly multiple structural breaks, averaging forecasts across both models and windows makes a significant difference. Indeed, the double-averaged GVAR forecasts perform better than the benchmark competitors, especially for output, inflation and real equity prices.'] [' Given nominal exchange rates and price data on N\xc2\xa0+\xc2\xa01 countries indexed by i\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00,1,2,\xe2\x80\xa6, N, the standard procedure for testing purchasing power parity (PPP) is to apply unit root or stationarity tests to N real exchange rates all measured relative to a base country, 0, often taken to be the U.S. Such a procedure is sensitive to the choice of base country, ignores the information in all the other cross-rates and is subject to a high degree of cross-section dependence which has adverse effects on estimation and inference. In this article, we conduct a variety of unit root tests on all possible N(N\xc2\xa0+\xc2\xa01)/2 real rates between pairs of the N\xc2\xa0+\xc2\xa01 countries and estimate the proportion of the pairs that are stationary. This proportion can be consistently estimated even in the presence of cross-section dependence. We estimate this proportion using quarterly data on the real exchange rate for 50 countries over the period 1957-2001. The main substantive conclusion is that to reject the null of no adjustment to PPP requires sufficiently large disequilibria to move the real rate out of the band of inaction set by trade costs. In such cases, one can reject the null of no adjustment to PPP up to 90% of the time as compared to around 40% in the whole sample using a linear alternative and almost 60% using a nonlinear alternative.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The contingency table literature on tests for dependence among discrete multi-category variables assume that draws are independent, and there are no tests that account for serial dependencies ? a problem that is particularly important in economics and finance. This paper proposes a new test of independence based on the maximum canonical correlation between pairs of discrete variables. We also propose a trace canonical correlation test using dynamically augmented reduced rank regressions or an iterated weighting method in order to account for serial dependence. Such tests are useful, for example, when testing for predictability of one sequence of discrete random variables by means of another sequence of discrete random variables as in tests of market timing skills or business cycle analysis. The proposed tests allow for an arbitrary number of categories, are robust in the presence of serial dependencies and are simple to implement using multivariate regression methods.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper is concerned with the estimation of New Keynesian Phillips Curves (NKPC) and focuses on two issues: the weak instrument problem and the characterization of the steady states. It proposes some solutions from a global perspective. Using a global vector autoregressive (GVAR) model steady states are estimated as long-horizon expectations and valid instruments are constructed from the global variables as weighted averages. The proposed estimation strategy is illustrated using estimates of the NKPC for eight developed industrial countries. The GVAR generates global factors that are valid instruments and help alleviate the weak instrument problem. The steady states also reflect global influences and any long-run theoretical relationships that might prevail within and across countries in the global economy. The GVAR measure of the steady state performed better than the HP measure, and the use of foreign instruments substantially increased the precision of the estimates of the output coefficient. Copyright (c) 2009 The Ohio State University.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper considers the problem of model uncertainty in the case of multi-asset volatility models and discusses the use of model averaging techniques as a way of dealing with the risk of inadvertently using false models in portfolio management. Evaluation of volatility models is then considered and a simple Value-at-Risk (VaR) diagnostic test is proposed for individual as well as 'average' models. The asymptotic as well as the exact finite-sample distribution of the test statistic, dealing with the possibility of parameter uncertainty, are established. The model averaging idea and the VaR diagnostic tests are illustrated by an application to portfolios of daily returns on six currencies, four equity indices, four ten year government bonds and four commodities over the period 1991-2007. The empirical evidence supports the use of 'thick' model averaging strategies over single models or Bayesian type model averaging procedures."] ['This paper proposes a modified version of Swamy\xc3\xa2\xc2\x80\xc2\x99s test of slope homogeneity for panel data models where the cross section dimension (N) could be large relative to the time series dimension (T) . The proposed test exploits the cross section dispersion of individual slopes weighted by their relative precision. In the case of models with strictly exogenous regressors and normally distributed errors, the test is shown to have a standard normal distribution as (N, T) \xe2\x86\x92 j \xe2\x88\x9e. Under non-normal errors and in the case of stationary dynamic models, the condition on the relative expansion rates of N and T for the test to be valid is given by \xe2\x88\x9a N /T \xe2\x86\x92 0, as (N, T) \xe2\x86\x92 j \xe2\x88\x9e. Using Monte Carlo experiments, it is shown that the test has the correct size and satisfactory power in panels with strictly exogenous regressors for various combinations of N and T . For autoregressive (AR) models the proposed test performs well for moderate values of the root of the autoregressive process. But for AR models with roots near unity a bias-corrected bootstrapped version of the test is proposed which performs well even if N is large relative to T . The proposed cross section dispersion tests are applied to testing the homogeneity of slopes in autoregressive models of individual earnings using the PSID data. The results show statistically significant evidence of slope heterogeneity in the earnings dynamics, even when individuals with similar educational backgrounds are considered as sub-sets.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper uses vector error correction models of Switzerland for forecasting output, inflation and the short-term interest rate. It considers three different ways of dealing with forecast uncertainties. First, it investigates the effect on forecasting performance of averaging over forecasts from different models. Second, it considers averaging forecasts from different estimation windows. It is found that averaging over estimation windows is at least as effective as averaging over different models and both complement each other. Third, it examines whether using weighting schemes from the machine learning literature improves the average forecast. Compared to equal weights the effect of alternative weighting schemes on forecast accuracy is small in the present application.'] ['This paper considers the implications of the permanent/transitory decomposition of shocks for identification of structural models in the general case where the model might contain more than one permanent structural shock. It provides a simple and intuitive generalization of the influential work of Blanchard and Quah (1989), and shows that structural equations with known permanent shocks can not contain error correction terms, thereby freeing up the latter to be used as instruments in estimating their parameters. The approach is illustrated by a re-examination of the identification schemes used by Wickens and Motto (2001), Shapiro and Watson (1988), King, Plosser, Stock, Watson (1991), Gali (1992, 1999) and Fisher (2006).<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" This paper proposes a bias-adjusted version of Breusch and Pagan (1980) Lagrange multiplier (LM) test statistic of error cross-section independence, in the case of panel models with strictly exogenous regressors and normal errors. The exact mean and variance of the test indicator of the LM test statistic are provided for the purpose of the bias-adjustments. It is shown that the centring of the LM statistic is correct for fixed T and N. Importantly, the proposed bias-adjusted LM test is consistent even when the Pesaran's (2004) CD test is inconsistent. Also an alternative bias-adjusted LM test, which is consistent under local error cross-section dependence of any fixed order p, is proposed. The finite sample behaviour of the proposed tests is investigated and compared to that of the LM and CD tests. It is shown that the bias-adjusted LM tests successfully control the size, maintaining satisfactory power in panel with exogenous regressors and normal errors. However, it is also shown that the bias-adjusted LM test is not as robust as the CD test to non-normal errors and&amp;sol;or in the presence of weakly exogenous regressors. Copyright Royal Economic Society 2007"] ['This paper examines the impact of neglected heterogeneity on credit risk. We show that neglecting heterogeneity in firm returns and/or default thresholds leads to underestimation of expected losses (EL), and its effect on portfolio risk is ambiguous. Once EL is controlled for, the impact of neglecting parameter heterogeneity is complex and depends on the source and degree of heterogeneity. We show that ignoring differences in default thresholds results in overestimation of risk, while ignoring differences in return correlations yields ambiguous results. Our empirical application, designed to be typical and representative, combines both and shows that neglected heterogeneity results in overestimation of risk. Using a portfolio of U.S. firms we illustrate that heterogeneity in the default threshold or probability of default, measured for instance by a credit rating, is of first order importance in affecting the shape of the loss distribution: including ratings heterogeneity alone results in a 20% drop in loss volatility and a 40% drop in 99.9% VaR, the level to which the risk weights of the New Basel Accord are calibrated.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Present value calculations require predictions of cash flows both at near and distant future points in time. Such predictions are generally surrounded by considerable uncertainty and may critically depend on assumptions about parameter values as well as the form and stability of the data generating process underlying the cash flows. This paper presents new theoretical results for the existence of the infinite sum of discounted expected future values under uncertainty about the parameters characterizing the growth rate of the cash flow process. Furthermore, we explore the consequences for present values of relaxing the stability assumption in a way that allows for past and future breaks to the underlying cash flow process. We find that such breaks can lead to considerable changes in present values.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The papers included in this special issue are primarily concerned with the problem of cross section dependence and heterogeneity in the analysis of panel data models and their relevance in applied econometric research. Cross section dependence can arise due to spatial or spill over effects, or could be due to unobserved (or unobservable) common factors. Much of the recent research on non-stationary panel data have focussed on this problem. It was clear that the first generation panel unit root and cointegration tests developed in the 1990's, which assumed cross-sectional independence, are inadequate and could lead to significant size distortions in the presence of neglected cross-section dependence. Second generation panel unit root and cointegration tests that take account of possible cross-section dependence in the data have been developed, see the recent surveys by Choi (2006) and Breitung and Pesaran (2007). The papers by Baltagi, Bresson and Pirotte, Choi and Chue, Kapetanios, and Pesaran in this special issue are further contributions to this literature. The papers by Fachin, and Moon and Perron are empirical studies in this area. Controlling for heterogeneity has also been an important concern for empirical researchers with panel data methods promising better handle on heterogeneity than cross-section data methods. The papers by Hsiao, Shen, Wang and Weeks, Pedroni and Serlenga and Shin are empirical contributions to this area. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2007 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd."] ['This paper presents a canonical, econometric model of contagion and investigates the conditions under which contagion can be distinguished from inter-dependence. In a two-country (market) setup it is shown that for a range of fundamentals the solution is not unique, and for sufficiently large values of the contagion coefficients it has interesting bifurcation properties with bimodal density functions. The extension of the model to herding behaviour is also briefly discussed. To identify contagion effects in the presence of inter-dependencies the equations for the individual markets or countries must contain country (market) specific forcing variables. This sheds doubt on the general validity of the correlation-based tests of contagions recently proposed in the literature which do not involve any country (market) specific fundamentals. Finally, we show that ignoring inter-dependence can introduce an upward bias in the estimate of the contagion coefficient, and using Monte Carlo experiments we further show that this bias could be substantial.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' A number of panel unit root tests that allow for cross-section dependence have been proposed in the literature that use orthogonalization type procedures to asymptotically eliminate the cross-dependence of the series before standard panel unit root tests are applied to the transformed series. In this paper we propose a simple alternative where the standard augmented Dickey-Fuller (ADF) regressions are augmented with the cross-section averages of lagged levels and first-differences of the individual series. New asymptotic results are obtained both for the individual cross-sectionally augmented ADF (CADF) statistics and for their simple averages. It is shown that the individual CADF statistics are asymptotically similar and do not depend on the factor loadings. The limit distribution of the average CADF statistic is shown to exist and its critical values are tabulated. Small sample properties of the proposed test are investigated by Monte Carlo experiments. The proposed test is applied to a panel of 17 OECD real exchange rate series as well as to log real earnings of households in the PSID data. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2007 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] ['This paper presents tests of long run macroeconomic relations involving interest rates, equity, prices and exchange rates suggested by arbitrage in financial and goods markets. It uses the global vector autoregressive (GVAR) model to test for long run restrictions in each country/region conditioning on the rest of the world. Bootstrapping is used to compute both the empirical distribution of the impulse responses and the log-likelihood ratio statistic for over-identifying restrictions. The paper also examines the speed with which adjustments to the long run relations take place via the persistence profiles. It finds strong evidence in favour of a long run version of uncovered interest parity and to a lesser extent the Fisher equation across a number of countries, but the test results for the purchasing power parity relation are much weaker. Also the transmission of shocks and subsequent adjustments in financial markets are much faster than those in goods markets.'] [' This paper attempts to provide a conceptual framework for the analysis of counterfactual scenarios using macroeconometric models. As an application we consider UK entry to the euro. Entry involves a long-term commitment to restrict UK nominal exchange rates and interest rates to be the same as those of the euro area. We derive conditional probability distributions for the difference between the future realizations of variables of interest (e.g. UK and euro area output and prices) subject to UK entry restrictions being fully met over a given period and the alternative realizations without the restrictions. The robustness of the results can be evaluated by also conditioning on variables deemed to be invariant to UK entry, such as oil or US equity prices. Economic interdependence means that such policy evaluation must take account of international linkages and common factors that drive fluctuations across economies. In this paper this is accomplished using the Global VAR recently developed by Dees et al. (J. Appl. Econometrics, 2007, forthcoming). The paper briefly describes the GVAR which has been estimated for 25 countries and the euro area over the period 1979-2003. It reports probability estimates that output will be higher and prices lower in the UK and the euro area as a result of entry. It examines the sensitivity of these results to a variety of assumptions about when and how the UK entered and the observed global shocks and compares them with the effects of Swedish entry. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2007 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper presents a quarterly global model combining individual country vector error-correcting models in which the domestic variables are related to the country-specific foreign variables. The global VAR (GVAR) model is estimated for 26 countries, the euro area being treated as a single economy, over the period 1979-2003. It advances research in this area in a number of directions. In particular, it provides a theoretical framework where the GVAR is derived as an approximation to a global unobserved common factor model. Using average pair-wise cross-section error correlations, the GVAR approach is shown to be quite effective in dealing with the common factor interdependencies and international co-movements of business cycles. It develops a sieve bootstrap procedure for simulation of the GVAR as a whole, which is then used in testing the structural stability of the parameters, and for establishing bootstrap confidence bounds for the impulse responses. Finally, in addition to generalized impulse responses, the current paper considers the use of the GVAR for 'structural' impulse response analysis with focus on external shocks for the euro area economy, particularly in response to shocks to the US. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2007 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd."] ['This paper proposes a pair-wise approach to testing for output convergence that considers all N(N-1)/2 possible pairs of log per capita output gaps across N economies. A general probabilistic definition of output convergence is also proposed, which suggests that all such output gap pairs must be stationary with a constant mean. The approach is compatible with individual output series having unit roots, does not involve the choice of a reference country in computation of output gaps, and can be applied when N is large relative to T (the time dimension of the panel). The proposed test is applied to output series in the Penn World Tables over 1950-2000, as well as to Maddion\xe2\x80\x99s historical series over 1870-2000. Overall, the results do not support output convergence, and suggest that the findings of convergence clubs in the literature might be spurious. However, significant evidence of growth convergence is found, a result which is reasonably robust to the choice of the sample period and country groupings. Non-convergence of log per capita outputs combined with growth convergence suggests that while common technological progress seems to have been diffusing reasonably widely across economies, there are nevertheless important country-specific factors (for example, wars, famines, revolutions, regime and institutional changes) that render output gaps highly persistent, such that we can not be sure that the probability for the output gaps to lie within a fixed range will be non-zero.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper provides a new approach to forecasting time series that are subject to discrete structural breaks. We propose a Bayesian estimation and prediction procedure that allows for the possibility of new breaks occurring over the forecast horizon, taking account of the size and duration of past breaks (if any) by means of a hierarchical hidden Markov chain model. Predictions are formed by integrating over the parameters from the meta-distribution that characterizes the stochastic break-point process. In an application to U.S. Treasury bill rates, we find that the method leads to better out-of-sample forecasts than a range of alternative methods. Copyright 2006, Wiley-Blackwell.'] [' This paper provides a synthesis and further development of a global modelling approach introduced in (Journal of Business and Economic Statistics, Vol. 22 (2004), pp. 129-162), where country-specific models in the form of VARX* structures are estimated relating a vector of domestic variables, x it , to their foreign counterparts,   , and then consistently combined to form a global vector autoregression. It is shown that the VARX* models can be derived as the solution to a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model where overidentifying long-run theoretical relations can be tested and imposed if acceptable. This gives the system a transparent long-run theoretical structure. Similarly, short-run overidentifying theoretical restrictions can be tested and imposed if accepted. Alternatively, if one has less confidence in the short-run theory the dynamics can be left unrestricted. The assumption of the weak exogeneity of the foreign variables for the long-run parameters can be tested, where   variables can be interpreted as proxies for regional and global factors. Rather than using deviations from ad hoc statistical trends, the equilibrium values of the variables reflecting the long-run theory embodied in the model can be calculated. The paper also provides some new results on the relative importance of external shocks for the UK and the Euro area economies. Copyright \xef\xbf\xbd 2006 The Authors; Journal compilation \xef\xbf\xbd 2006 Blackwell Publishing Ltd and The University of Manchester.'] ['This paper presents a new approach to modeling conditional credit loss distributions. Asset value changes of firms in a credit portfolio are linked to a dynamic global macroeconometric model, allowing macroeffects to be isolated from idiosyncratic shocks from the perspective of default (and hence loss). Default probabilities are driven primarily by how firms are tied to business cycles, both domestic and foreign, and how business cycles are linked across countries. We allow for firm-specific business cycle effects and the heterogeneity of firm default thresholds using credit ratings. The model can be used, for example, to compute the effects of a hypothetical negative equity price shock in South East Asia on the loss distribution of a credit portfolio with global exposures over one or more quarters. We show that the effects of such shocks on losses are asymmetric and non-proportional, reflecting the highly nonlinear nature of the credit risk model.'] [' This paper presents a new approach to estimation and inference in panel data models with a general multifactor error structure. The unobserved factors and the individual-specific errors are allowed to follow arbitrary stationary processes, and the number of unobserved factors need not be estimated. The basic idea is to filter the individual-specific regressors by means of cross-section averages such that asymptotically as the cross-section dimension (N) tends to infinity, the differential effects of unobserved common factors are eliminated. The estimation procedure has the advantage that it can be computed by least squares applied to auxiliary regressions where the observed regressors are augmented with cross-sectional averages of the dependent variable and the individual-specific regressors. A number of estimators (referred to as common correlated effects (CCE) estimators) are proposed and their asymptotic distributions are derived. The small sample properties of mean group and pooled CCE estimators are investigated by Monte Carlo experiments, showing that the CCE estimators have satisfactory small sample properties even under a substantial degree of heterogeneity and dynamics, and for relatively small values of N and T. Copyright The Econometric Society 2006.'] ['This paper considers the problems facing decision makers using econometric models in real time. It identifies the key stages involved and highlights the role of automated systems in reducing the effect of data snooping. It sets out many choices that researchers face in construction of automated systems and discusses some of the possible ways advanced in the literature for dealing with them. The role of feedbacks from the decision maker\xe2\x80\x99s actions to the data generating process is also discussed and highlighted through an example.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" This paper provides a recursive empirical analysis of the scope for cost minimization in public debt management when the debt manager faces a given short-term interest rate dictated by monetary policy as well as risk and market impact constraints. It simulates the 'real-time' interest costs of alternative portfolios for UK government debt between April 1985 and March 2000. These portfolios are constructed using forecasts of return spreads based on a recursive modelling procedure. While we find statistically significant evidence of predictability, the interest cost savings are quite small when portfolio shares are constrained to lie within historical bounds. Copyright 2005 Blackwell Publishing Ltd."] ['Autoregressive models are used routinely in forecasting and often lead to better performance than more complicated models. However, empirical evidence is also suggesting that the autoregressive representations of many macroeconomic and financial time series are likely to be subject to structural breaks. This paper develops a theoretical framework for the analysis of small-sample properties of forecasts from general autoregressive models under a structural break. Our approach is quite general and allows for unit roots both pre- and post-break. We derive finite-sample results for the mean squared forecast error of one-step-ahead forecasts, both conditionally and unconditionally and present numerical results for different types of break specifications. Implication of breaks for the determination of the optimal window size are also discussed.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper considers estimation and inference in panel vector autoregressions (PVARs) with fixed effects when the time dimension of the panel is finite, and the cross-sectional dimension is large. A Maximum Likelihood (ML) estimator based on a transformed likelihood function is proposed and shown to be consistent and asymptotically normally distributed irrespective of the unit root and cointegrating properties of the underlying PVAR model. The transformed likelihood framework is also used to derive unit root and cointegration tests in panels with short time dimension; these tests have the attractive feature that they are based on standard chi-squared and normal distributed statistics. Examining Generalised Method of Moments (GMM) estimation as an alternative to our proposed ML estimator, it is shown that conventional GMM estimators based on standard orthogonality conditions break down if the underlying time series contain unit roots.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Empirical evidence suggests that many macroeconomic and financial time-series are subject to occasional structural breaks. In this paper we present analytical results quantifying the effects of such breaks on the correlation between the forecast and the realisation, and on the ability to forecast the sign or direction of a time-series that is subject to breaks. Our results suggest that it can be very costly to ignore breaks. Forecasting approaches that condition on the most recent break are likely to perform better over unconditional approaches that use expanding or rolling estimation windows, provided that the break is reasonably large.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Financial institutions such as banks are ultimately exposed to macroeconomic fluctuations I the countries to which they have exposure, the most acute example being commercial lending to companies whose fortunes fluctuate with aggregate demand. This risk management need for financial institutions motivated us to build a compact global macroeconomic model capable of generating (point as well as density) forecasts for a core set of macroeconomic factors for a set of regions and countries which explicitly allows for interconnections and interdependencies that exist between national and international factors. This paper provides such a global modeling framework; making use of recent advances in the analysis of cointegrating systems. In an unrestricted VAR(p) model in k endogenous variables covering N countries, the number of unknown parameters will be unfeasibly large, of order p(kN-1), requiring a more parsimonious model specification. We first estimate individual country/region specific vector error correcting models, where the domestic macroeconomic variables are related to corresponding foreign variable constructed exclusively to match the international trade pattern of the country under consideration. The individual country models are then combined in a consistent and cohesive manner to generate forecasts for all the variables in the world economy simultaneously. We estimate the model for 26 countries grouped into 11 regions using quarterly data from 1970Q1 to 1999Q1 and shed light on the degree of regional interdependencies by investigating the time profile of the transmission of shocks to one variable in a given country/region to the rest of the world. We then use the estimated global model as the economic engine for generating a conditional loss distribution of a credit portfolio and illustrate the effects of various global risk scenarios on the loss distribution.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Implements panel unit root tests from Im, Pesaran and Shin(2003), "Testing for Unit Roots in Heterogeneous Panels", J. of Econometrics, vol 115,53-74.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' A new modelling strategy that provides a practical approach to incorporating long-run structural relationships, suggested by economic theory, in an otherwise unrestricted VAR model is applied to construct a small quarterly macroeconometric model of the UK, estimated over 1965q1-1999q4 in nine variables: domestic and foreign outputs, prices and interest rates, oil prices, the nominal effective exchange rate, and real money balances. The aim is to develop a model with a transparent and theoretically coherent foundation. Tests of restrictions on the long-run relations of the model are presented. The dynamic properties of the model are discussed and monetary policy shocks identified. Copyright 2003 Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The paper develops a general framework for identification, estimation, and hypothesis testing in cointegrated systems when the cointegrating coefficients are subject to (possibly) non-linear and cross-equation restrictions, obtained from economic theory or other relevant a priori information. It provides a proof of the consistency of the quasi maximum likelihood estimators (QMLE), establishes the relative rates of convergence of the QMLE of the short-run and the long-run parameters, and derives their asymptotic distributions; thus generalizing the results already available in the literature for the linear case. The paper also develops tests of the over-identifying (possibly) non-linear restrictions on the cointegrating vectors. The estimation and hypothesis testing procedures are applied to an Almost Ideal Demand System estimated on U.K. quarterly observations. Unlike many other studies of consumer demand this application does not treat relative prices and real per capita expenditures as exogenously given.'] ['Despite mounting empirical evidence to the contrary, the literature on predictability of stock returns almost uniformly assumes a time-invariant relationship between state variables and returns. In this paper we propose a two-stage approach for forecasting of financial return series that are subject to breaks. The first stage adopts a reversed ordered Cusum (ROC) procedure to determine in real time when the most recent break has occurred. In the second stage, post-break data is used to estimate the parameters of the forecasting model. We compare this approach to existing alternatives for dealing with parameter instability such as the Bai-Perron method and the time-varying parameter model. An out-of-sample forecasting experiment demonstrates considerable gains in market timing precision from adopting the proposed two-stage forecasting method.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['A transformed likelihood approach is suggested to estimate fixed effects dynamic panel data models. Conditions on the data generating process of the exogenous variables are given to get around the issue of ?incidental parameters?. The maximum likelihood (MLE) and minimum distance estimator (MDE) are suggested. Both estimators are shown to be consistent and asymptotically more efficient than the instrumental variable (IV) or generalised method of moment (GMM) estimators. A Hausman-type specification test is suggested to test the fixed versus random effects specification or conditions on the data-generating process of the exogenous variables. Monte Carlo studies are conducted to evaluate the finite sample properties of the MLE, MDE, IV and GMM. It is shown that the likelihood approach appears to dominate the GMM approach both in terms of the bias or root mean squares error of the estimators and the size and power of the test statistics.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper develops a new approach to the problem of testing the existence of a level relationship between a dependent variable and a set of regressors, when it is not known with certainty whether the underlying regressors are trend- or first-difference stationary. The proposed tests are based on standard F- and t-statistics used to test the significance of the lagged levels of the variables in a univariate equilibrium correction mechanism. The asymptotic distributions of these statistics are non-standard under the null hypothesis that there exists no level relationship, irrespective of whether the regressors are I(0) or I(1). Two sets of asymptotic critical values are provided: one when all regressors are purely I(1) and the other if they are all purely I(0). These two sets of critical values provide a band covering all possible classifications of the regressors into purely I(0), purely I(1) or mutually cointegrated. Accordingly, various bounds testing procedures are proposed. It is shown that the proposed tests are consistent, and their asymptotic distribution under the null and suitably defined local alternatives are derived. The empirical relevance of the bounds procedures is demonstrated by a re-examination of the earnings equation included in the UK Treasury macroeconometric model. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2001 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper applies an extended and generalised version of the recursive modelling strategy developed in Pesaran and Timmermann (1995) to the UK stock market. The focus of the analysis is to simulate investors\' search in "real time" for a model that can forecast stock returns. We find evidence of predictability in UK stock returns which could have been exploited by investors to improve on the risk-return trade-off offered by a passive strategy in the market portfolio. Alternative interpretations of this finding are briefly discussed.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper considers the problem of cross-sectional aggregation when the underlying micro behavioural relations are characterised by general non-linear specifications. It focuses on forecasting the aggregates, and shows how an optimal aggregate model can be derived by minimising the mean squared prediction errors conditional on the aggregate information. It also derives model selection criteria for distinguishing between aggregate and disaggregate models when the primary object of the analysis is forecasting the aggregates, and establishes the consistency of the model selection criteria in large samples. In the case of standard non-linear micro relations with additive specifications, boot-strap techniques are considered to correct for small sample bias of the proposed model selection criteria. The paper also contains an empirical application where log-linear production functions are estimated for the UK economy disaggregated by eight industrial sectors and at the aggregate level for 1954-1995.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper presents two generalisations of the existing cointegration analysis literature. Firstly, the problem of efficient estimation of vector error correction models containing I(1) exogenous variables is considered and the asymptotic distributions of the log-likelihood ratio statistics for testing cointegrating rank are derived under different intercept and trend specifications and the respective critical values are tabulated. Tests of the co-trending hypothesis are also developed together with model mis-specification tests. Secondly, the paper considers the problem of efficient estimation of vector error correction models when the lag lengths of the included stationary variables may differ within and between equations. The purchasing power parity and the uncovered interest rate parity hypotheses are re-examined using UK data under the maintained assumption of exogenously given foreign prices.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" This paper considers the solution of nonlinear rational expectations models resulting from the optimality conditions of a finite-horizon intertemporal optimization problem satisfying Bellman's principle of optimality (and possibly involving inequality constraints). A backward recursive procedure is used to characterize and solve the time-varying optimal decision rules generally associated with these models. At each stage of these backward recursions, either an analytical or numerical solution of the optimality conditions is required. When an analytical solution is not possible, a minimum weighted residual approach is used. The solution technique is illustrated using a life-cycle model of consumption under labor income and interest rate uncertainties (and possibly involving liquidity constraints). Approximate numerical solutions are provided and compared with certainty-equivalent solutions and, when possible, with exact solutions. Citation Copyright 2000 by Kluwer Academic Publishers."] [' Sir Richard Stone, knighted 1978 and 1984 Nobel Laureate in Economics, was one of the pioneers of national income and social accounts, and one of the few economists of his generation to have faced the challenge of economics as a science by combining theory and measurement within a cohesive framework. Awarded the Nobel Prize for his "fundamental contributions to the development of national accounts", he made equally significant contributions to the empirical analysis of consumer behaviour. His work on the "Growth Project" was instrumental in the development of econometric methodology for the construction and analysis of large disaggregated macroeconometric models.'] ['The use of residuals from the structural equations in a simultaneous-equations model can lead to misleading measures of association and to invalid diagnostic statistics for heteroscedasticity and functional form misspecifications. The issue of appropriate measures of goodness-of-fit for IV regression is addressed in Pesaran and Smith (1994). This paper considers the problem of appropriate construction of diagnostics for IV regressions, and proposes simple tests for functional form misspecifications and heteroscedasticity.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" This article examines the exchange-rate determination in a target-zone regime when the bounds can be fixed for an extended period but are subject to occasional jumps. In this case, the behavior of the endogenous variable is affected by the agents' expectations about both the occurrence and the size of the jump. Empirical results using data for the franc/mark exchange rate provide support for the nonlinear model with time-varying realignment probability and indicate that the agents correctly anticipated most of the observed changes in the central parity."] [' This article considers the consequences of explicitly allowing for stochastic technological progress and stochastic labor input in the discrete-time Solow-Swan and AK growth models. It shows that the capital-output ratio, but not output per capita, is ergodic irrespective of whether there is a unit root in technology, and thus is the more appropriate measure to use in the cross-sectional analysis of the growth process. Furthermore, the article derives the cross-sectional and time-series implications of the stochastic Solow-Swan model and contrasts these to those of its deterministic counterpart. Among these implications are that the mean of the capital-output ratio depends in a precise way not only on the saving rate and the growth rate of labor input, but also on the variance and higher-order cumulants of the capital-output ratio. Using the Summers-Heston data for seventy-two countries from 1960 to 1992, strong support is found for the predictions of the stochastic Solow-Swan model as compared to those of its deterministic counterpart (as well as those of the AK model), including a significant negative cross-sectional relationship between the mean and the variance of the capital-output ratio. Copyright 1999 by Kluwer Academic Publishers'] [' This paper comments on recent developments in the literature on the econometric analysis of international growth and convergence. It notes that panel estimates of the neoclassical model, accommodating level effects for individual countries through heterogeneous intercepts, deal with some of the econometric difficulties arising in some of the earlier cross-sectional studies. But it notes that, in dynamic panels, heterogeneity in growth effects and in speeds of convergence renders this estimator inconsistent also. The pervasiveness of such heterogeneity is demonstrated in three samples of countries, and the effects of (incorrectly) imposing homogeneity on estimated parameters are illustrated and discussed. \xc2\xa9 2000 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ["Building on Koop, Pesaran and Potter (1996), the authors propose the `generalised' impulse response analysis for unrestricted vector autoregressive (VAR) and cointegrated VAR models. Unlike the traditional impulse response analysis, this approach does not require orthogonalisation of shocks and is invariant to the ordering of the variables in the VAR. In particular, it is shown that in general both generalised and orthogonalised impulse responses are equivalent only when the effects of the shock for the first equation in the VAR is examined. An empirical illustration is also provided showing that the two impulse responses could differ substantially.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [" The authors consider the solution of multivariate linear rational expectations models in the presence of heterogeneous information and social interactions. To overcome the 'infinite regress in expectations' problem that arises in the solution of these models, we assume that agents' expectations about the decisions and expectations of other agents are based solely on public information. They show that the resulting solutions satisfy the key postulates of the rational expectations hypothesis, but can nevertheless exhibit dynamic properties quite different from those under homogeneous information. The authors illustrate this by analyzing a model of firms' optimal factor demand decisions. In this model, the presence of information heterogeneity may accentuate the propagation effects of external shocks on firms' factor demands. Copyright 1998 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association."] ['This argues for a closer link between the modelling of the long-run relations in applied economics and the intertemporal equilibrium notion from economic theory.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The paper considers international per capita output and its growth using a panel of data for 102 countries between 1960 and 1989. It sets out an explicitly stochastic Solow growth model and Shows that this has quite different properties from the standard approach where the output equation is obtained by adding an error term to the linearized solution of a deterministic Solow model. It examines the econometric properties of estimates of beta convergence as traditionally defined in the literature and shows that all these estimates are subject to substantial biases. Our empirical estimates clearly reflect the nature and the magnitude of these biases as predicted by econometric theory. Steady state growth rates differ significantly across countries and once this heterogeneity is allowed for the estimates of beta are substantially higher than the consensus in the literature. But they are very imprecisely estimated and difficult to interpret. The paper also discusses the economic implications of these results for sigma convergence. (c) 1997 John Wiley &amp; Sons. Ltd.'] ['This paper considers the solution of multivariate linear rational expectations models. It is described how all possible classes of solutions (namely, the unique stable solution, multiple stable solutions, and the case where no stable solution exists) of such models can be characterized using the quadratic determinantal equation (QDE) method of Binder and Pesaran (1995, in M.H. Pesaran &amp; M. Wickens [eds.], Handbook of Applied Econometrics: Macroeconomics , pp. 139\xe2\x80\x93187. Oxford: Basil Blackwell). To this end, some further theoretical results regarding the QDE method expanding on previous work are presented. In addition, numerical techniques are discussed allowing reasonably fast determination of the dimension of the solution set of the model under consideration using the QDE method. The paper also proposes a new, fully recursive solution method for models involving lagged dependent variables and current and future expectations. This new method is entirely straightforward to implement, fast, and applicable also to high-dimensional problems possibly involving coefficient matrices with a high degree of singularity.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This article examines the robustness of the evidence on predictability of U.S. stock returns, and addresses the issue of whether this predictability could have been historically exploited by investors to earn profits in excess of a buy-and-hold strategy in the market index. We find that the predictive power of various economic factors over stock returns changes through time and tends to vary with the volatility of returns. The degree to which stock returns were predictable seemed quite low during the relatively calm markets in the 1960s but increased to a level where, net of transaction costs it could have been exploited by investors in the volatile markets of the 1970s. Copyright 1995 by American Finance Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' A choice criterion is proposed for discriminating between disaggregate and aggregate models estimated by the instrumental variables method. The criterion, based on prediction errors, represents a generalization of criteria developed in the context of classical regressions models. The paper also derives general tests for aggregation bias in the instrumental variables context. The criterion and tests are applied in an analysis of U.K. employment demand. It is shown that a model disaggregated by forty industries predicts aggregate employment better than an aggregate model, and that significant biases exist in estimates of the long-run wage and output elasticities obtained from the aggregate model.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' A multisectoral union-firm model of wage-setting is developed to analyze intersectoral interactions that take place through expectations of outside wage opportunities in the economy as a whole. The technical issues involved in the solution and estimation of models of this type are discussed, noting the significance of the assumed structure of information across sectors. These issues are investigated empirically using data for sixteen industrial sectors o f the UK economy. It is found that (1) expected outside wages exert an important influence on real wages in all sectors; (2) pressure on wa ges which are internal to the sector are found primarily outside the "service-producing" sectors; (3) unemployment rates and unemployment benefits show up significantly only in a few sectors; (4) there are complicated dynamic adjustments influencing wage formation across th e sectors; and (5) the aggregate wage equations considered in the pape r are subject to serious aggregation problems. Copyright 1993 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper develops a multisectoral framework for the measurement of persistence of shocks to sectoral and aggregate output, and provides a decomposition of the contribution of shocks from different sources to the overall persistence measure. The framework is applied to U.K. output data, distinguishing four types of macroeconomic shocks: innovations in money supply growth, stock returns, exchange rates, and oil prices. Among the macro shocks, exchange-rate shocks have the largest persistence effects on aggregate output, through their effects on manufacturing sectors. The contribution of the identified macro shocks to total persistence was small, however, compared to that of sector-specific shocks. Copyright 1992 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper derives a distribution free procedure for testing the accuracy of forecasts when the focus of the analysis is on the correct prediction of the direction of change in the variable under consideration. The test applies to a general m x n contingency table and it is shown that the standard null hypothesis of independence in a contingency table implies the null hypothesis of the proposed test of predictive failure but not vice versa. As a test of predictive performance the chi-squared test of independence will, in general, be more conservative than the suggested test of predictive failure. The paper also contains two applications: A dichotomous version of the test is applied to the CBI's Industrial Trends Surveys of actual and expected price changes in the manufacturing sector, and a trichotomous version of the test is applied to the demand data from business surveys of French manufacturing industry conducted by INSEE."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper extends the results obtained by Pagan (1984) and Turkington (1985) for single equation rational expectations (RE) models to multivariate RE models and shows that the errors-in-variables method and the substitution method discussed in Wickens (1982) lead to exactly the same likelihood function. The paper also considers multivariate RE models with unanticipated variables and includes an empirical application to the problem of testing the natural rate-rational expectations (NR-RE) hypothesis at the disaggregate level using U.S. data over the period 1955-85.'] ['Sir Richard Stone, knighted in 1978 and Nobel Laureate in Economics in 1984, is one of the pioneering architects of national income and social accounts, and is one of the few economists of his generation to have faced the challenge of economics as a science by combining theory and measurement within a cohesive framework. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Economics for his \xe2\x80\x9cfundamental contributions to the development of national accounts,\xe2\x80\x9d but he has made equally significant contributions to the empirical analysis of consumer behavior. His work on the \xe2\x80\x9cGrowth Project\xe2\x80\x9d has also been instrumental in the development of appropriate econometric methodology for the construction and the analysis of large disaggregated macroeconometric models.'] [' This note provides a generalization of the standard adjustment cost-rational expectations model due to Sargent (1978), which, in addition to the cost of changing the level of the decision variable, also allows for the cost of altering the "speed" with which decisions are changed. It establishes the existence of a unique stable solution for this more general model, derives an explicit solution for the underlying decision problem, and provides a necessary order condition for identification of the structural parameters. The note also contains an application of the model to the determination of employment in the U.K. coal industry over the 1956-83 period. Copyright 1991 by MIT Press.'] [' This paper discusses alternative methods of testing for aggregation bias and proposes direct tests of the discrepancy of the macroparameters from the average of the corresponding microparameters, and derives tests of aggregation bias in the general case where the parameters of interest may possibly be nonlinear functions of the microparameters. The paper also develops a Durbin-Hausman type misspecification test of the disaggregate model. These tests are then applied to disaggregate and aggregate specifications of employment functions for the U.K. economy disaggregated by forty industries. Copyright 1990 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper develops an econometric model for the analysis of exploration and production policies of "price-taking" suppliers, and derives theoretically consistent exploration and output equations for oil which explicitly take account of the oil discovery process and the intertemporal nature of exploration and production decision. The model is then applied to an empirical analysis of oil exploration and extraction on the United Kingdom Continental Shelf (UKCS) over the period 1978(1)-1986(4). The analysis explicitly takes account of the available engineering information concerning the pressure dynamics of the petroleum reserves and the geological knowledge pertinent to the discovery process, and presents formal statistical tests of the significance of these factors for the explanation of output and exploration in the North Sea. Copyright 1990 by Royal Economic Society.'] [' This paper focuses on whether to use macro or micro equations to predict aggregate variables. The Grunfeld-Griliches prediction criterion is generalized to allow for contemporaneous covariances across the micro equations and for parametric restrictions on the disaggregate equations. An econometric test is proposed of the hypothesis of "perfect aggregation." An application is made to employment demand functions for the U.K. economy disaggregated by forty industries. The hypothesis of perfect aggregation is firmly rejected. The prediction criterion marginally favors the aggregate equation when aggregating over the manufacturing industries, but over all industries the disaggregated equations are strongly preferred. Copyright 1989 by The Econometric Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper addresses two related issues in the literature of non-nested hypotheses testing. Firstly, by means of a measure of \xe2\x80\x9ccloseness\xe2\x80\x9d of probability density functions, it shows how any two hypotheses can be placed into the nested and the non-nested categories with the latter category being subdivided further into \xe2\x80\x9cglobally\xe2\x80\x9d and \xe2\x80\x9cpartially\xe2\x80\x9d non-nested hypotheses. Secondly, by emphasizing the distinction between a \xe2\x80\x9clocal null\xe2\x80\x9d and a \xe2\x80\x9clocal alternative,\xe2\x80\x9d the paper shows that only in the case of partially non-nested hypotheses is it possible to specify local alternatives. In this case the paper derives the asymptotic distribution of the Cox test statistic under local alternatives and shows that it is distributed as a normal variate with a mean which is directly related to the measure of \xe2\x80\x9ccloseness\xe2\x80\x9d of the alternative to the null hypothesis.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']