 ['This paper studies the responses of unemployment in Germany, the United States and Britain to the Great Recession of 2008-09 by making use of Beveridge curve analysis, and in the entire OECD with other techniques. It is shown that Britain suffered from recession but no structural problems; the United States suffered from structural unemployment during the recovery; Germany exhibited a much better performance both during and after the recession. The rise in OECD unemployment is broken down into parts due to aggregate activity, the construction sector and a residual attributed to policies and institutions, which is used to reach conclusions about policy.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["We examine the allocation of hours of work across industrial sectors in OECD countries. We find large disparities across three sector groups, one that produces goods without home substitutes, and two others that have home substitutes but are treated differently by welfare policy. We attribute the disparities to the countries' tax and subsidy policies. High taxation substantially reduces hours in sectors that have close home substitutes but less so in other sectors. Subsidies increase hours in the subsidized sectors that have home substitutes. We compute these policy effects for 19 OECD countries. (JEL H24, H31, J22)"] ['Christopher A. Pissarides delivered his Prize Lecture on 8 December 2010 at Aula Magna, Stockholm University.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper derives optimal employment contracts when workers are risk-averse and there are employment and unemployment risks. Without income insurance, consumption rises during employment and falls during unemployment. Optimal employment contracts offer severance compensation and sometimes give notice before dismissal. Severance compensation smooths consumption during employment, and dismissal delays insure partially against the unemployment risk because of moral hazard. During the delay, consumption falls to give incentives to the worker to search for another job. No dismissal delays are optimal if exogenous unemployment compensation is sufficiently generous. Copyright (c) The London School of Economics and Political Science 2010.'] [" I discuss the failure of the canonical search and matching model to match the cyclical volatility in the job finding rate. I show that job creation in the model is influenced by wages in new matches. I summarize microeconometric evidence and find that wages in new matches are volatile and consistent with the model's key predictions. Therefore, explanations of the unemployment volatility puzzle have to preserve the cyclical volatility of wages. I discuss a modification of the model, based on fixed matching costs, that can increase cyclical unemployment volatility and is consistent with wage flexibility in new matches. Copyright 2009 The Econometric Society."] ['In this paper we study the contribution of inflows and outflows to the dynamics of unemployment in three European countries, the United Kingdom, France and Spain. All countries are interesting in their own right and in the comparison with each other. Britain\xe2\x80\x99s labour markets were strictly regulated up to the mid 1980s but they have been liberalized since then. France is still a regulated economy compared with Britain, with unemployment averaging about 8%. Spain has had the biggest rise in unemployment in Europe, reaching 24% in the mid 1990s, but policy reforms and fast growth since then brought it down to a level below France\xe2\x80\x99s. We compare performance in these three countries making use of both administrative and labor force survey data. We find that the impact of the 1980s reforms in Britain is evident in the contributions of the inflow and outflow rates. The inflow rate became a bigger contributor after the mid 1980s, although its significance subsided again in the late 1990s and 2000s. In France the dynamics of unemployment are driven by the outflow rate virtually entirely, which is consistent with a regime with strict employment protection legislation. In Spain, however, both rates contribute significantly to the dynamics, perhaps as a consequence of the prominence of fixed-term contracts since the late 1980s.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Christopher Pissarides holds the Norman Sosnow Chair in Economics at the London School of Economics. He is interested in the macroeconomics of the labor market, structural change and economic growth.'] ['This paper investigates the reasons that the labour market is given so much prominence in discussions about the euro. It concludes that differences in labour market flexibility across countries can have the same impact as asymmetric shocks and so warrant different monetary policies. The paper further discusses the role of welfare policy and migration in European integration.'] ['We examine the implications of tax and subsidy policies for employment in the ?three worlds of welfare?, Anglo-Saxon, Continental European and Scandinavian. We argue that home production is key to a proper evaluation of the employment outcomes. Anglo-Saxon low-support policies encourage more overall market employment. Continental transfer policies encourage more home production in services with close substitutes at home. Scandinavian policies give incentives to move home production in social services to the market but discourage other service activity. We find support for our claims in sectoral employment data for five representative countries, United States, Britain, France, Italy and Sweden.'] ['In order to avoid writing a comment that may turn out to be irrelevant the author has therefore decided to comment less directly on what Bill says, and focus instead on the problem that Bill has posed and discuss some thoughts on how to go about modeling it.'] ["We study substitutions between home and market production over long periods of time. We use the results to get predictions about long-run trends in aggregate market hours of work and about employment shifts across economic sectors, driven by uneven TFP growth in market and home production. The model can rationalize the observed falling or U-shaped pattern for aggregate market hours, the complete marketization of home production in agriculture and manufacturing, and the employment shift from agriculture and manufacturing to services. We find support for the model's predictions in long-run US data. (Copyright: Elsevier)"] [' I examine the dynamic evolutions of unemployment, hours of work, and the service share since the war in the United States and Europe. The theoretical model brings together all three and emphasizes technological growth. Computations show that the very low unemployment in Europe in the 1960s was due to the high productivity growth associated with technological catch-up. Productivity also played a role in the dynamics of hours, but a full explanation for the fast rise of service employment and the big fall in aggregate hours needs further research. Taxation has played a role but results are mixed. Copyright 2007 by the Economics Department Of The University Of Pennsylvania And Osaka University Institute Of Social And Economic Research Association.'] ['We study a multisector model of growth with differences in TFP growth rates across sectors and derive sufficient conditions for the coexistence of structural change, characterized by sectoral labor reallocation and balanced aggregate growth. The conditions are weak restrictions on the utility and production functions. Along the balanced growth path, labor employed in the production of consumption goods gradually moves to the sector with the lowest TFP growth rate, until in the limit it is the only sector with nontrivial employment of this kind. The employment shares of intermediate and capital goods remain constant during the reallocation process. (JEL O41)'] [' Theoretical predictions of the impact of total factor productivity (TFP) growth on unemployment are ambiguous, and depend on the extent to which new technology is embodied in new jobs. We evaluate a model with embodied and disembodied technology, capitalization, and creative destruction effects. In econometric estimates with a panel of industrial countries we find a large negative impact of TFP growth on unemployment, which implies that embodied technology and creative destruction play no role in the steady-state dynamics of unemployment. Capitalization effects explain some of the estimated impact but a part remains unexplained. Copyright 2007 by the Economics Department Of The University Of Pennsylvania And Osaka University Institute Of Social And Economic Research Association.'] ['We study the response of domestic unemployment rates to shocks in total factor productivity for economies with high capital mobility and low labour mobility. We show that rapid capital movements across national borders, like those experienced by developed nations in the last twenty years, substantially amplify the impact on the domestic unemployment rate of domestic fluctuations in total factor productivity relative to what would have happened in a closed economy, shorten the duration of the responses and raise the variability of employment. Capital flows increase the riskiness of labour income and reduce the riskiness of capital income.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Estimates of aggregate matching functions may miss important scale effects in frictional labour markets because of the reactions of job seekers to scale. We estimate a semi-structural model of search and matching on a British sample of unemployed people, testing for scale effects on the probability of receiving an offer and on the distribution of wage offers. We find them only in wage offers but we also find that reservation wages rise to deliver higher post-unemployment wages but not faster matches. So aggregate matching functions should be unaffected by scale but wage equations should be showing them. Copyright 2006 Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We show in the framework of a new economic geography model that when labor is heterogenous and productivity depends on the quality of the match between job and worker, trade liberalization may lead to industrial agglomeration and inter-industry trade. The agglomeration force is the improvement in the quality of matches when firms recruit from a bigger pool of labor. The forces against agglomeration are the existence of trade costs and monopoly power in the labor market. We show that more heterogeneity in skills attracts both firms and workers to bigger markets and supports agglomeration at higher trade costs.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper surveys the microfoundations, empirical evidence, and estimation issues underlying the aggregate matching function. There is no consensus yet on microfoundations but one is emerging on estimation. An aggregate, constant returns, Cobb-Douglas matching function with hires as a function of vacancies and unemployment has been successfully estimated for several countries. Recent work has utilized disaggregated data to go beyond aggregate estimates, with many refinements and suggestions for future research. The paper discusses spatial aggregation issues, and implications of on-the-job search and of the timing of stocks and flows for estimated matching functions.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['I consider the options that governments have in the setting of monetary and fiscal policy with and without adoption of the euro. I argue that some issues, such as the role of ender of last resort, have not yet been satisfactorily addressed by the European Central Bank. But on balance, the conclusion reached is that although the adoption of the single currency restricts the ability of a country to use discretionary fiscal and monetary policy, the constraints should work in favor of low inflation and economic stability.'] [' This paper considers the implications of four kinds of labour market policies for the 1980s rise in European unemployment: unemployment compensation, active labour market policies, employment protection legislation and taxation. It finds evidence that all have played a role in the determination of unemployment and discusses the mechanisms involved, the extent of the influence of each and the lessons learned from this experience. One of the main findings is that there is a trade-off between wage inequality and unemployment. Policy has played a role in determining how a country responded to the negative macroeconomic shocks of the 1980s but policy alone cannot explain the full rise in European unemployment and North American wage inequality. Copyright 1999 by Scottish Economic Society.'] [' Do skill-biased shocks that increase the spread of labor productivities, interacting with different policy regimes, explain the rise in unemployment in Europe relative to the United States in the 1980s and 1990s? The hypothesis is an implication of a version of the Mortensen and Pissarides (1994) model of equilibrium unemployment which allows for worker heterogeneity. A calibrated version of the model implies that a similar unemployment increase would have occurred in the United States over this period, given changes in relative productivity by education implied by observed wage changes, had unemployment compensation and employment protection policies been at European levels.'] ['I model and simulate the effects of employment tax cuts on unemployment and wages in four equilibrium models: competitive, union bargaining, search and efficiency wages. I find that if the ratio of unemployment compensation to wages is fixed, the effect of the tax cut is mainly on wages. But if income out of work is fixed in real terms, there are substantial employment effects. When wages are determined by bargaining, revenue-neutral reforms that make the tax more progressive also reduce unemployment. Thus, policy towards unemployment compensation and tax structure are key influences on the effect of taxes on unemployment.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["New technology embodied in capital equipment can be adopted either through destruction of existing jobs and the creation of new ones or by renovation, updating the job's equipment. Under the assumption that the destruction of jobs generates worker layoffs, we show that higher productivity growth induces lower unemployment when renovation costs are low but that the response of employment to growth switches from positive to negative as the cost of updating existing technology rises above a unique critical level. The effects of idiosyncratic productivity differences and cross sector mobility on the aggregate relationship between growth and unemployment are also studied. (Copyright: Elsevier)"] [' Recent evidence shows that the returns to labor and the skill premium both increase in developing countries after trade liberalization, despite the low skill content of their exports. The author explains this apparent puzzle by arguing that trade increases technology transfers from industrial to developing countries and that the transfer technology is biased in favor of skilled labor. The relative demand for skilled labor increases during the transition following liberalization, and so the gains enjoyed by skilled labor are temporary, even in the absence of supply responses. The gains become longer lasting when the transferred technology is also skill-biased. Copyright 1997 by Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper introduces on-the-job search into the model of search equilibrium that builds on the concept of the matching function and noncooperative wage behavior. On-the-job search takes place only at short job tenures because of the accumulation of job-specific human capital. The model of search equilibrium retains its familiar structure but yields new results. The most interesting one is a fall in the responsiveness of unemployment to productivity shocks because of induced changes in the composition of jobs and the number of employed job seekers. Copyright 1994 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] [' In this paper, the authors model a job-specific shock process in the matching model of unemployment with noncooperative wage behavior. They obtain endogenous job creation and job destruction processes and study their properties. The authors show that an aggregate shock induces negative correlation between job creation and job destruction, whereas a dispersion shock induces positive correlation. The job destruction process is shown to have more volatile dynamics than the job creation process. In simulations, the authors show that an aggregate shock process proxies reasonably well the cyclical behavior of job creation and job destruction in the United States. Copyright 1994 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] ["In this paper we highlight certain links between unemployment, savings and growth. Using a standard overlapping generations framework modified to incorporate matching frictions in the labour market and a technology capable of yielding unbounded endogenous growth, we show that the cross-country bivariate correlation between unemployment and growth can be either positive or negative depending on the source of the differences in economic structures across countries. Amongst other results we note an 'anti-Kaldorian' property whereby an increase in the relative bargaining strength of workers which tends to reduce employment (and hence also the volume of savings), may nevertheless increase growth because the associated redistribution towards those who save (the young) produces an increase in the total volume of saving overall. We also present a two-sector variant of the model in which there is imperfect (Cournot) competition in consumption goods markets. A reduction in the propensity to save leads to an expansion in the market size for consumption goods, an increase in competition as new firms enter, and a fall in the relative price of consumption goods. This tends to expand employment. If entry costs into consumption goods production are sufficiently large this expansion in employment can be big enough to produce an increase in the total volume of saving even though the propensity to save has itself decreased. This 'Keynesian' result is in marked contrast to more 'Classical' results that are obtained when the same experiment is conducted in our earlier model.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' This paper shows that when unemployed workers lose some of their skills, the effects of a temporary shock to employment can persist for a long time. The key mechanism is a thin market externality that reduces the supply of jobs when the duration of unemployment increases. The paper develops an overlapping-generations model of search equilibrium and shows that different patterns of persistence and multiple equilibria are possible even with constant returns production and matching technologies. Copyright 1992, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [' This paper estimates a three-equation model of the Australian labor market, for employment, real wages, and the participation rate. It uses the model to study the role of incomes policies in containing real wage growth and the reasons behind the changes in unemployment since 1970. It finds that incomes policies have not been important in controlling real wages; the rise in unemployment in the 1970s was due to the rise in tax rates and unemployment benefits; and the changes in unemployment in the 1980s were connected with changes in investment and aggregate demand. Copyright 1991 by The London School of Economics and Political Science.'] [' The business cycle affects the incidence of poverty, as shown by evidence from Australia, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Many of the poor in these countries are outside the labor market, and transfers are a major source of income for many others, but the unemployment and wage reductions that occur in recession increase the incidence of poverty. Major causes of poverty are unemployment in Australia and the United Kingdom and low wages in the United States. Similar cyclical effects are observed in Sweden, but a vast transfer program virtually eliminates poverty. There are several policy options for combating poverty caused by recession. A combination of unemployment insurance for a limited period followed by a job guarantee is the most effective policy toward unemployment, whereas poverty caused by low earnings can be remedied by redistribution through the tax system. Copyright 1991 by Oxford University Press.'] [" This paper estimates the response of interregional net migration to wage and unemployment differentials and the adjustment of relative wages over time in Britain. It finds that the regional system eventually eliminates disequilibrium unemployment differentials and adjusts to an equilibrium where a region's relative wage compensates for its unemployment differential at the rate 3:1 (i.e., 3 percent higher wage for a percentage point higher unemployment). Adjustment is very slow, so regional policy might save several person-years of unemployment by offering incentives for the faster movement of people and jobs. Copyright 1990 by Royal Economic Society."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper shows how data on vacancies can be used to interpret developments in the labor market. In Britain, the U/V curve, relating unemployment and vacancy rates, has shifted out to the right since the mid-1960s and the average level of vacancies has fallen. Copyright 1989 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd'] [' This paper investigates the effect of unemployment on interregional mobility in Great Britain by estimating household migration probabilities with data from the 1977 and 1984 Labour Force Surveys. It finds that households with unemployed heads are much more likely to move than households with employed heads, but regional unemployment differentials do not play an independent explanatory role in migration decisions. It also finds that, at higher overall unemployment rates, the migration probabilities of the unemployed are reduced everywhere, but those of the employed show little change. Copyright 1989 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper discusses some issues in the theory of unemployment; proposes a framework for the analysis of unemployment; and applies the framework to the analysis of the rise in unemployment in Britain after 1979. The framework is based on bilateral monopoly in the labor market and the explanation for the rise in unemployment in Britain rests primarily with a demand-side shock, which caused the rise in 1980-81, and supply-side persistence, which has kept unemployment up since then. Copyright 1989 by The London School of Economics and Political Science.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper surveys recent developments in the theory of employment and wages and d escribes a framework for policy analysis which recognizes the existen ce of monopolistic elements in labor markets. Wages are determined by firm-union bargains, firms choose the number of jobs, and workers in fluence the fraction of jobs that is filled through search. The frame work is applied to the analysis of the wage and employment effects of indexation, tax-based incomes policies, and profit sharing. Copyright 1987 by The Economic Society of Australia.'] [" The author uses an equilibrium model of job matchings with a Nash wage equation to derive the response of wages and unemployment to productivity shock. By endogenizing labor's threat point, he shows that wages absorb fully permanent shocks but only partially temporary shocks. Hence, unemployment responds to perceived temporary shocks but not to permanent shocks. Copyright 1987 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Decentralized wage setting in search equilibrium models is inefficient because the meeting firm and worker ignore the dependence of job-matching probabilities on the number of firms and worker engaged in search. This paper investigates whether risk-neutral monopolistic unions will have an incentive to internalize this externality. The author finds that the externality will be internalized only if the union's policy is chosen by unemployed persons. If employed persons influence union policy, both the union wage and unemployment will be too high. A tax on the union wage, combined with an employment subsidy to firms, can correct this inefficiency. Copyright 1986 by University of Chicago Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" We examine wages and employment for junior and senior workers when seniority is firm-specific. We show that if workers are risk averse, the firm chooses both the junior and senior wage independently of the wage offers received by its workers from other firms. Junior workers are paid less than the value of their marginal product and senior workers are paid more. If the firm can monitor its workers' outside offers, it will choose to lay off workers with good offers, but which, nevertheless, may not be so good as its own senior wage."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']