 ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["How much economic mobility is there across generations in a poor, primarily rural, economy? How much do intergenerational linkages contribute to current inequality? We address these questions using original survey data on Senegal that include a sub-household measure of consumption for cells within the household. While intergenerational linkages are evident, we find a relatively high degree of mobility across generations, associated with the shift from farm to non-farm sectors and greater economic activity of women. Male-dominated bequests of land and housing bring little gain to consumption and play little role in explaining inequality, though they have important effects on sector of activity. Inheritance of non-land assets and the education and occupation of parents (especially the mother) and their choices about children's schooling are more important to adult welfare than property inheritance. Significant gender inequality in consumption is evident, though it is almost entirely explicable in terms of factors such as education and (non-land) inheritance. There are a number of other pronounced gender differences, with intergenerational linkages appearing through the mother rather than the father."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Alternative scenarios are considered for reducing by one billion the number of people surviving on less than $1.25 a day. The low-case, \xe2\x80\x9cpessimistic\xe2\x80\x9d path to that goal envisages the developing world outside China returning to the slower pace of economic growth and poverty reduction of the 1980s and 1990s, but with China maintaining its progress. This path would take 50 years or more to lift one billion people out of poverty. A more optimistic path is identified that would maintain the developing world's (impressive) progress against absolute poverty since the turn of the century. This path would lift one billion people out of poverty by 2025\xe2\x80\x9330. The optimistic path is consistent with both linear projections of the time-series data and nonlinear simulations of inequality-neutral growth for the developing world as a whole. Copyright 2013, Oxford University Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Relative deprivation, shame and social exclusion can matter to the welfare of people everywhere. The authors argue that such social effects on welfare call for a reconsideration of how we assess global poverty, but they do not support standard measures of relative poverty. The paper argues instead for using a weakly-relative measure as the upper-bound complement to the lower-bound provided by a standard absolute measure. New estimates of global poverty are presented, drawing on 850 household surveys spanning 125 countries over 1981-2008. The absolute line is $1.25 a day at 2005 prices, while the relative line rises with the mean, at a gradient of 1:2 above $1.25 a day. The authors show that these parameter choices are consistent with cross-country data on national poverty lines. The results indicate that the incidence of both absolute and weakly-relative poverty in the developing world has been falling since the 1990s, but more slowly for the relative measure. While the number of absolutely poor has fallen, the number of relatively poor has changed little since the 1990s, and is higher in 2008 than 1981.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" Development impact calls for knowledgeable development practitioners. How then do the operational staff of the largest development agency value and use its own research? Is there an incentive to learn and does it translate into useful knowledge? A new survey reveals that the bulk of the World Bank's senior staff value the Bank's research for their work, and most come to know it well, although a sizable minority have difficulty accessing research to serve their needs. Another group sees little value to research for their work and does not bother to find out about it. Higher perceived value is reflected in greater knowledge about research, though there are frictions in this process. Staff working on poverty, human development and economic policy tend to value and use Bank research more than staff in the more traditional sectors of Bank lending - agriculture and rural development, Energy and Mining (EM), transport and urban development; the latter sectors account for 45% of lending but only 15% of staff are highly familiar with Bank research. Without stronger incentives for learning and more relevant and accessible research products, it appears likely that this lag in demand for research by the traditional sectors will persist."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The inferences drawn from the most widely used regression models of subjective welfare are subject to a \xe2\x80\x9cframe-of-reference bias,\xe2\x80\x9d stemming from non-ignorable heterogeneity in subjective scales, such as what it means to be \xe2\x80\x9crich\xe2\x80\x9d or \xe2\x80\x9cpoor.\xe2\x80\x9d To test for this bias, respondents in Tajikistan were asked to rank the economic status of theoretical vignette households, as well as their own. Respondents are found to hold diverse scales, but there is very little bias in either the economic gradient of subjective welfare or most other coefficients of interest. These results provide a foundation for standard survey methods and regression specifications for subjective welfare data.'] [' Average living standards are converging among developing countries and faster growing economies see more progress against poverty. Yet we do not find poverty convergence; countries starting with higher poverty rates do not see higher proportionate rates of poverty reduction. The paper tries to explain why. Analysis of a new dataset suggests that, at given mean consumption, high initial poverty has an adverse effect on consumption growth and also makes growth less poverty-reducing. Thus, for many poor countries, the growth advantage of starting out with a low mean is lost due to a high incidence of poverty. (JEL D63, I31, I32, O15)'] [' The World Bank claims to be a \xe2\x80\x9cknowledge bank,\xe2\x80\x9d but do its knowledge products influence development thinking, or is the Bank merely a proselytizer? The World Bank is a prolific publisher; for example, it has published more journal articles in economics than any university except Harvard. But what about their impact on development thinking? Using citation data from Google Scholar it is hard to discern more than a negligible impact for a great many Bank publications. However, a sizeable minority of its journal articles and books have been highly cited. Compared to leading research universities and other international institutions, the Bank\xe2\x80\x99s ranking in terms of widely-used citation-based indices is no lower than for its journal article counts. This suggests that the Bank\xe2\x80\x99s research does much more than proselytize. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2012'] [' Countries are increasingly being ranked by some new \xe2\x80\x9cmashup index of development,\xe2\x80\x9d defined as a composite index for which existing theory and practice provides little or no guidance for its design. Thus the index has an unusually large number of moving parts, which the producer is essentially free to set. The parsimony of these indices is often appealing\xe2\x80\x94collapsing multiple dimensions into just one, yielding seemingly unambiguous country rankings, and possibly reducing concerns about measurement errors in the component series. But the meaning, interpretation, and robustness of these indices and their implied country rankings are often unclear. If they are to be properly understood and used, more attention needs to be given to their conceptual foundations, the tradeoffs they embody, the contextual factors relevant to country performance, and the sensitivity of the implied rankings to the changing of the data and weights. In short, clearer warning signs are needed for users. But even then, nagging doubts remain about the value-added of mashup indices, and their policy relevance, relative to the \xe2\x80\x9cdashboard\xe2\x80\x9d alternative of monitoring the components separately. Future progress in devising useful new composite indices of development will require that theory catches up with measurement practice. Copyright 2012, Oxford University Press.'] ["The 20th Human Development Report introduced a new version of its famous Human Development Index (HDI), which aggregates country-level attainments in life expectancy, schooling and income. The main change was to relax the past assumption of perfect substitutability between its components. Most users will not, however, realize that the new HDI has also greatly reduced its implicit weight on longevity in poor countries, relative to rich ones. By contrast, the new HDI's valuations of extra schooling are now very high\xe2\x80\x94many times the economic returns. An alternative index is proposed that embodies less troubling tradeoffs while still allowing imperfect substitution."] ['Abhijit Banerjee and Esther Duflo offer a coherent vision for an economics of poverty and antipoverty policy. Their economics is grounded in an effort to understand the economic and psychological complexities in the lives of poor people, informed by social experiments and field observations. Their preferred policies entail small reforms at the margin, also informed by experiments\xe2\x80\x94specifically randomized control trials. While the book provides some interesting insights, I question how far its approach will get us in fighting global poverty. (JEL I32, I38, O15, P36)'] ['There has been a growing interest in what have come to be termed"multidimensional indices of poverty."Advocates for these new indices correctly point out that command over market goods is not all that matters to peoples\'well-being, and that other factors need to be considered when quantifying the extent of poverty and informing policy making for fighting poverty. However, the author argues that there are two poorly understood issues in assessing these indices. First, does one believe that any single index can ever be a sufficient statistic for poverty assessments? Second, when aggregation is called for, should it be done in the space of"attainments,"using prices when appropriate, or that of"deprivations,"using weights set by the analyst? The paper argues that the goal for future poverty monitoring efforts should be to develop a credible set of multiple indices, spanning the dimensions of poverty most relevant to a specific setting, rather than a single multidimensional index. When weights are needed, they shouldn\'t be set solely by an analyst measuring poverty. Rather, they should be, as much as possible, consistent with well-informed choices made by poor people.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Brazil, China, and India have seen falling poverty in their reform periods, but to varying degrees and for different reasons. History left China with favorable initial conditions for rapid poverty reduction through market-led economic growth; at the outset of the reform process there were many distortions to be removed and a relatively low inequality of access to the opportunities so created, though inequality has risen markedly since. By concentrating such opportunities in the hands of the better off, prior inequalities in various dimensions handicapped poverty reduction in both Brazil and India. Brazil's recent success in complementing market-oriented reforms with progressive social policies has helped it achieve a higher proportionate rate of poverty reduction than India, although Brazil has been less successful in terms of economic growth. In the wake of its steep rise in inequality, China might learn from Brazil's success with such policies. India needs to do more to assure that poor people are able to participate in both the country's growth process and its social policies; here there are lessons from both China and Brazil. All three countries have learned how important macroeconomic stability is to poverty reduction. Copyright 2011, Oxford University Press."] [" The extent to which India's poor have benefited from the country's economic growth has long been debated. A new series of consumption-based poverty measures spanning 50 years, including a 15-year period after economic reforms began in earnest in the early 1990s, is used to examine that issue. Growth has tended to reduce poverty, including in the postreform period. There is no robust evidence of more or less poverty responsiveness to growth since the reforms began, although there are signs of rising inequality. The impact of growth is higher when using poverty measures that reflect distribution below the poverty line and when using growth rates calculated from household surveys rather than national accounts. The urban-rural pattern of growth matters for the pace of poverty reduction. However, in marked contrast to the period before the reforms, urban economic growth in the period after the reforms has brought significant gains to the rural poor as well as the urban poor. Copyright , Oxford University Press."] [' Prevailing measures of relative poverty are unchanged when all incomes grow or contract by the same proportion. This property stems from seemingly implausible assumptions about the disutility of relative deprivation and the cost of social inclusion. We propose \xe2\x80\x9cweakly relative\xe2\x80\x9d lines that relax these assumptions. On calibrating our measures to national poverty lines and survey data, we find that half the population of the developing world in 2005 lived in poverty, only half of whom were absolutely poor. The total number of poor rose over 1981 to 2005 despite falling numbers of absolutely poor. With sustained economic growth, the incidence of relative poverty became less responsive to further growth. The number of relatively poor rose, just as the numbers of absolutely poor fell. \xc2\xa9 2011 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['Development aid and policy discussions often assume that poorer countries have less internal capacity for redistribution in favor of their poorest citizens. The assumption is tested for 90 developing countries. Most countries fall into one of two groups: those with little or no realistic prospect of addressing extreme poverty through redistribution from the \xc2\x93rich\xc2\x94 and those that would appear to have ample scope for such redistribution. Economic growth tends to move countries from the first group to the second. Thus the appropriate balance between growth and redistribution strategies can be seen to depend on the level of economic development.'] [' A new data set on national poverty lines is combined with new price data and almost 700 household surveys to estimate absolute poverty measures for the developing world. We find that 25% of the population lived in poverty in 2005, as judged by what "poverty" typically means in the world\'s poorest countries. This is higher than past estimates. Substantial overall progress is still indicated-the corresponding poverty rate was 52% in 1981-but progress was very uneven across regions. The trends over time and regional profile are robust to various changes in methodology, though precise counts are more sensitive. (c) 2010 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology..'] ["China's rapid economic growth has been the proximate cause of the huge reduction in the incidence of poverty since 1980. Yet, the growth process has been highly uneven across sectors and regions. We test whether the pattern of China's growth mattered to poverty reduction using a new provincial panel data set constructed for this purpose. Our econometric tests support the view that the primary sector (mainly agriculture) has been the main driving force in poverty reduction. We note a number of similarities, and differences, with India."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" We show how differences in aggregate human development outcomes over time and space can be additively decomposed into a pure mean income (growth) component, a component attributed to differences in the distribution of income, and components attributed to 'non-income' factors and differences in the model linking outcomes to income and non-income characteristics. The income effect at the micro level is modelled non-parametrically, so as to flexibly reflect potentially complex distributional changes. Our proposed method is illustrated using data for Morocco and Vietnam, and the results offer some surprising insights into the observed aggregate gains in schooling attainments. Copyright (c) Blackwell Publishing Ltd and the Department of Economics, University of Oxford, 2010."] ["Summary Western notions of the 'middle class' are of little obvious relevance to developing countries. Instead, the middle class is identified here as those living above the median poverty line of developing countries, even if still poor by rich-country standards. Over 1990-2005, economic growth and global distributional shifts allowed an extra 1.2 billion people to join the developing world's middle class. Four-fifths came from Asia, and half from China. Many of those in this new middle class remain fairly close to poverty. Only 100 million of the 1.2 billion would not be considered poor in any developing county. Economic growth typically came with an expanding middle class."] ["If relative deprivation matters to welfare in poor countries as much as it apparently does in rich ones then one would have to question the priority given to economic growth over redistribution in current development policies. We look for evidence in one of the world's poorest countries, Malawi. Using new survey questions that help address likely biases in past tests, we find that relative deprivation is not the dominant concern for most of our sample, although it is for the comparatively well off, including in urban areas. Our results strengthen the welfarist case for a policy focus on absolute levels of living in poor countries. The pattern of externalities suggests that there will be too much poverty and inequality from the point of view of aggregate efficiency."] ["Brazil's slow pace of poverty reduction between the mid-1980s and the mid-2000s reflects both low growth and a low growth elasticity of poverty reduction. Using GDP data disaggregated by state and sector for a twenty-year period, this paper finds considerable variation in the poverty-reducing effectiveness of growth--across sectors, across space, and over time. Growth in the services sector was substantially more poverty-reducing than was growth in either agriculture or industry. Growth in industry had different effects on poverty across different states and its impact varied with initial conditions related to human development and worker empowerment. But because there was so little of it, economic growth actually played a relatively small role in accounting for Brazil's poverty reduction between 1985 and 2004. The taming of hyperinflation (in 1994) and a substantial expansion in social security and social assistance transfers, in large part mandated by the 1988 Constitution, accounted for the bulk of the overall reduction in poverty."] [' The current financial crisis is global in nature, but it will have differing impacts within the developing world. Some people and some countries are more vulnerable than others. The author believes that it also threatens to have lasting impacts for some of those affected, notably through the nutrition and schooling of children in poor families. The author believes mistakes were made in past crises and identifies key design features for safety net programs that can help compensate for the likely welfare losses in the short-term while also promoting longer-term recovery.'] [' Standard methods of impact evaluation often leave significant gaps between what we know about development effectiveness and what we want to know--gaps that stem from distortions in the market for knowledge. The author discusses how evaluations might better address these knowledge gaps and so be more relevant to the needs of practitioners. It is argued that more attention needs to be given to identifying policy-relevant questions (including the case for intervention), that a broader approach should be taken to the problems of internal validity (including heterogeneity and spillover effects), and that the problems of external validity (including scaling up) merit more attention by researchers. Copyright The Author 2009. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / the world bank . All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org, Oxford University Press.'] ["Summary At the outset of China's reform period, the country had a far higher poverty rate than Africa as a whole. Within five years that was no longer true. This paper tries to explain how China escaped from a situation in which extreme poverty persisted due to failed and unpopular policies. While acknowledging that Africa faces constraints that China did not, two lessons for Africa stand out. The first is the initial importance of productivity growth in smallholder agriculture, which will require both market-based incentives and public support. The second is the role played by strong leadership and a capable public administration at all levels of government."] [' Along with the other panellists in a session of this conference, the author was asked to discuss evaluation designs for three stylised interventions: conditional cash transfers, a transport sector programme, and an anti-corruption commission. This paper records his responses, and elaborates a little on some points, including references to the literature. He begins with some general suggestions on the issues to think about at the outset of any evaluation. He then tries to illustrate these points with reference to the three stylised interventions.'] ["The paper re-visits the site of a large, World Bank-financed, rural development program in China, 10years after it began and four years after disbursements ended. The program emphasized community participation in multi-sectoral interventions (including farming, animal husbandry, infrastructure and social services). Data were collected on 2000 households in project and non-project areas, spanning 10years. A double-difference estimator of the program's impact (on top of pre-existing governmental programs) reveals sizeable short-term income gains that were mostly saved. Only small and statistically insignificant gains to mean consumption emerged in the longer-term -- though in rough accord with the average gain to permanent income. The use of community-based beneficiary selection greatly reduced the overall impact, given that the educated poor were under-covered. The main results are robust to corrections for various sources of selection bias, including village targeting and interference due to spillover effects generated by the response of local governments to the external aid."] [" The article presents the first major update of the international $1 a day poverty line, proposed in World Development Report 1990: Poverty for measuring absolute poverty by the standards of the world's poorest countries. In a new and more representative data set of national poverty lines, a marked economic gradient emerges only when consumption per person is above about $2.00 a day at 2005 purchasing power parity. Below this, the average poverty line is $1.25, which is proposed as the new international poverty line. The article tests the robustness of this line to alternative estimation methods and explains how it differs from the old $1 a day line. Copyright The Author 2009. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / the world bank . All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org, Oxford University Press."] ["Social experiments are not the only, or even the best, way of addressing the key policy questions faced in the fight against poverty according to Martin Ravallion, the director of the Word Bank's research department."] ["In the wake of reforms to establish a free market in land-use rights, Vietnam is experiencing a pronounced rise in rural landlessness. To some observers this is a harmless by-product of a more efficient economy, while to others it signals the return of the pre-socialist class-structure, with the rural landless at the bottom of the economic ladder. The authors'theoretical model suggests that removing restrictions on land markets will increase landlessness among the poor, but that there will be both gainers and losers, with uncertain impacts on aggregate poverty. Empirically, they find that landlessness is less likely for the poor and that the observedrise in landlessness is poverty reducing on balance. However, there are marked regional differences, notably between the north and the south.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['A method is proposed for testing the robustness of the assessed targeting performance of an anti-poverty program to the fact that program administrators have a broader concept of "poverty" than the economist/evaluator. An application is given to China\'s main urban anti-poverty program.'] [" Can self-assessments of health reveal the true health differentials between 'rich' and 'poor'? The potential sources of bias include psychological adaptation to ill-health, socioeconomic covariates of health reporting errors and income measurement errors. We propose an estimation method to reduce the bias by isolating the component of self-assessed health that is explicable in terms of objective health indicators and allowing for broader dimensions of economic welfare than captured by current incomes. On applying our method to survey data for Russia we find a pronounced (nonlinear) economic gradient in health status that is not evident in the raw data. This is largely attributable to the health effects of age, education and location. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2008 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd."] ['While the incidence of extreme poverty in China fell dramatically over 1980-2001, progress was uneven over time and across provinces. Rural areas accounted for the bulk of the gains to the poor, though migration to urban areas helped. The pattern of growth mattered. Rural economic growth was far more important to national poverty reduction than urban economic growth. Agriculture played a far more important role than the secondary or tertiary sources of gross domestic product (GDP). Rising inequality within the rural sector greatly slowed poverty reduction. Provinces starting with relatively high inequality saw slower progress against poverty, due both to lower growth and a lower growth elasticity of poverty reduction. Taxation of farmers and inflation hurt the poor. External trade had little short-term impact.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We study the poverty impacts over time and space of Indonesia\xe2\x80\x99s severe economy-wide crisis of 1998, using 10 large national surveys spanning 1993\xe2\x80\x932002. On allowing for shifts in relative prices stemming from the crisis, we find a sharp but geographically uneven increase in the poverty rate in 1998, reflecting both the unevenness in the extent of the economic contraction and the differing initial conditions at the local level. Our counterfactual analyses indicate geographically diverse recovery rates 4 years later. Proportionate impacts on the poverty rate in both 1998 and 2002 were greater in initially better-off and less unequal districts. In the aggregate, a large share\xe2\x80\x94possibly half\xe2\x80\x94of the poverty count in 2002 is attributed to the 1998 crisis.'] ['Past approaches to correcting for unit nonresponse in sample surveys by re-weighting the data assume that the problem is ignorable within arbitrary subgroups of the population. Theory and evidence suggest that this assumption is unlikely to hold, and that household characteristics such as income systematically affect survey compliance. The authors show that this leaves a bias in the re-weighted data and they propose a method of correcting for this bias. The geographic structure of nonresponse rates allows them to identify a micro compliancefunction, which they then use to re-weight the unit-record data. An example is given for the U.S. Current Population Surveys, 1998-2004. The authors find, and correct for, a strong household income effect on response probabilities.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' One-quarter of the world\'s consumption poor live in urban areas, and that proportion has been rising over time. Over 1993-2002, the count of the "$1 a day" poor fell by 150 million in rural areas but rose by 50 million in urban areas. The poor have been urbanizing even more rapidly than the population as a whole. By fostering economic growth, urbanization helped reduce absolute poverty in the aggregate. There are marked regional differences: Latin America has the most urbanized poverty problem, East Asia has the least; there has been a "ruralization" of poverty in Eastern Europe and Central Asia; in marked contrast to other regions, Africa\'s urbanization process has not been associated with falling overall poverty. Copyright 2007 The Population Council, Inc..'] [' In theory, a poverty line can be defined as the cost of a common (inter-personally comparable) utility level across a population. But how can one know if this holds in practice? For groups sharing common consumption needs but facing different prices, the theory of revealed preference can be used to derive testable implications of utility consistency knowing only the "poverty bundles" and their prices. Heterogeneity in needs calls for extra information. We argue that subjective welfare data offer a credible means of testing utility consistency across different needs groups. A case study of Russia\'s official poverty lines shows how revealed preference tests can be used in conjunction with qualitative information on needs heterogeneity. The results lead us to question the utility consistency of Russia\'s official poverty lines. Copyright \xef\xbf\xbd 2006 The Authors; Journal compilation \xef\xbf\xbd International Association for Research in Income and Wealth 2006.'] ['There has been much debate about how much poor people in developing countries gain from trade openness, as one aspect of"globalization."The author views the issue through both"macro"and"micro"empirical lenses. The macro lens uses cross-country comparisons and aggregate time series data. The micro lens uses household-level data combined with structural modeling of the impacts of specific tradereforms. The author presents case studies for China and Morocco. Both the macro and micro approaches cast doubt on some wide generalizations from both sides of the globalization debate. Additionally the micro lens indicates considerable heterogeneity in the welfare impacts of trade openness, with both gainers and losers among the poor. The author identifies a number of covariates of the individual gains. The results point to the importance of combining trade reforms with well-designed social protection policies.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The authors examine the distributional implications of selective compliance in sample surveys, whereby households with different incomes are not equally likely to participate. They discuss poverty and inequality measurement implications for monotonically decreasing and inverted-U compliance-income relationships. The authors demonstrate that the latent income effect on the probability of compliance can be estimated from information on response rates across geographic areas. On implementing the method on the Current Population Survey for the United States, they find that the compliance probability falls monotonically as income rises. Correcting for non-response appreciably increases mean income and inequality, but has only a small impact on poverty incidence up to poverty lines common in the United States.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" Liberalising key factor markets is a crucial step in the transition from a socialist control-economy to a market economy. However, the process can be stalled by imperfect information, high transaction costs and covert resistance from entrenched interests. The article studies agricultural land reallocation in the wake of Vietnam's efforts to establish a free market in land-use rights following de-collectivisation. Inefficiencies in the initial administrative allocation are measured against an explicit counterfactual. Land allocation responded positively but slowly to the initial inefficiencies. There is no sign that the transition favoured the land rich or that it was thwarted by local officials. Copyright 2006 The Author(s). Journal compilation Royal Economic Society 2006."] [' The paper tests for nonlinearities in the wealth effect on self-employment, as can arise from startup costs or liquidity constraints. Using both nonparametric and parametric methods, we show that the relationship between the probability of a return migrant to Tunisia starting up a business and the stock of his savings repatriated at return is concave for almost the entire range of our data, though we find weak evidence of a convex relationship at very low wealth levels. Our results suggest that the aggregate self-employment rate is an increasing function of aggregate wealth, but a decreasing function of wealth inequality. Copyright (c) The London School of Economics and Political Science 2006.'] ['Cross-country comparisons of social indicators controlling for income and/or social spending have been widely used to measure and explain "social efficiency," analogously to "technical efficiency" in production. The article argues that these methods are clouded in ambiguities about what is being measured. Standard methods of measuring technical efficiency require assumptions that are unlikely to hold for social indicators. In the context of a simple parametric model of life expectancy, conditions are identified under which there will be a systematic pattern of bias in estimates of efficient public health spending.'] [' The idea that developing countries face a trade off between poverty and inequality has had considerable influence on thinking about development policy. The experience of developing countries in the 1990s does not, however, reveal any sign of a systematic trade off between measures of absolute poverty and relative inequality. Indeed, falling inequality tends to come with falling poverty incidence. And rising inequality appears more likely to be putting a brake on poverty reduction than to be facilitating it. However, there is evidence of a trade off for absolute inequality, suggesting that those who want a lower absolute gap between the rich and the poor must in general be willing to see lower absolute levels of living for poor people. Copyright Springer 2005'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Does"empowerment"come hand-in-hand with higher economic welfare? In theory, higher income is likely to raise both power and welfare, but heterogeneity in other characteristics and household formation can either strengthen or weaken the relationship. Survey data on Russian adults indicate that higher individual and household incomes raise both self-rated power and welfare. The individual income effect is primarily direct, rather than through higher household income. There are diminishing returns to income, though income inequality emerges as only a minor factor reducing either aggregate power or welfare. At given income, the identified covariates have strikingly similar effects on power and welfare. There are some notable differences between men and women in perceived power.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We propose a method for estimating the mean impact of an assigned social program when it is not feasible to do a pre-intervention baseline survey but it is feasible to track ex-participants. In our triple-difference estimator, measured outcome changes are compared between continuing participants and matched ex-participants, after netting out the outcome changes for a matched comparison group who never participated. With sufficient followup observations one can test the joint conditions required for correctly identifying the gains to current participants. We apply the method to a workfare program in Argentina. Significant impacts on participants\xe2\x80\x99 current incomes are revealed.'] ['In the last year or so, markedly different claims have been heard within the development community about how just much progress is being made against poverty and inequality in the current period of \xe2\x80\x9cglobalization.\xe2\x80\x9d This paper provides a non-technical overview of the conceptual and methodological issues underlying these conflicting claims. The paper argues that the dramatically differing positions taken in this debate often stem from differences in the concepts and definitions used and differences in data sources and measurement assumptions. These differences are often hidden from view in the debate, but they need to be considered carefully if one is to properly interpret the evidence. The paper argues that the best available evidence suggests that, if the rate of progress against absolute poverty in the developing world in the 1990s is maintained, then the Millennium Development Goal of halving the 1990 aggregate poverty rate by 2015 will be achieved on time in the aggregate, though not in all regions. The paper concludes with some observations on the implications for policy-oriented debates on globalization and pro-poor growth.'] [" The de-collectivization of Vietnamese agriculture was a crucial step in the country's transition to a market economy. The assignment of land-use rights had to be decentralized and local cadres ostensibly had the power to capture this process. We assess the realized land allocation against explicit counter-factuals. Depending on the region, we find that 95-99 percent of maximum aggregate consumption was realized by a land allocation that generated lower inequality overall, with the poorest absolutely better off. We attribute this outcome to initial conditions at the time of reform and actions by the centre to curtail the power of local elites. Copyright (c) The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 2004."] ["Argentina's Proempleo Experiment, conducted in 1998-2000, was designed to assess whether a wage subsidy and specialized training could assist the transition from workfare to regular work. Randomly sampled workfare participants in a welfare-dependent urban area were given a voucher that entitled an employer to a sizable wage subsidy; a second sample also received the option of skill training; and a third sample formed the control group. Voucher recipients, the authors find, had a higher probability of employment than did the control group, even though the rate of actual take-up of vouchers by the hiring employers was very low. The employment gains were in the informal sector and largely confined to female workers, younger workers, and more educated workers. Skill training had no statistically significant impact overall, though once the analysis corrects for selective compliance, an impact for those with sufficient prior education is found. (Free full-text download available at http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/ilrreview/.)"] [" A new assessment is made of the developing world's progress against poverty. By the frugal $1 a day standard there were 1.1 billion poor people in 2001--almost 400 million fewer than 20 years earlier. During that period the number of poor people declined by more than 400 million in China, though half the decline was in the early 1980s and the number outside China rose slightly. At the same time the number of people in the world living on less than $2 a day rose, so that there has been a marked bunching up of people living between $1 and $2 a day. Sub-Saharan Africa has become the region with the highest incidence of extreme poverty and the greatest depth of poverty. If these trends continue, the 1990 aggregate $1 a day poverty rate will be halved by 2015, meeting the Millennium Development Goal, though only East and South Asia will reach this goal. Copyright 2004, Oxford University Press."] [" The article assesses the impact of Argentina's main social policy response to the severe economic crisis of 2002. The program was intended to provide direct income support for families with dependents and whose head had become unemployed because of the crisis. Counterfactual comparisons are based on a matched subset of applicants not yet receiving program assistance. Panel data spanning the crisis are also used. The program reduced aggregate unemployment, though it attracted as many people into the workforce from inactivity as it did people who otherwise would have been unemployed. Although there was substantial leakage to formally ineligible families and incomplete coverage of those who were eligible, the program did partially compensate many losers from the crisis and reduced extreme poverty. Copyright 2004, Oxford University Press."] ['We test for the existence of poverty traps and distribution-dependent growth using a nonlinear dynamic panel data model of household incomes allowing for endogenous attrition. Our estimates for Hungary and Russia in the 1990s reveal significant nonlinearity in the dynamics, consistent with the claim that income inequality attenuates growth in mean income. However, we do not find evidence of a threshold effect at low incomes, as postulated by models of dynamic poverty traps. Our results indicate that households generally bounce back from transient shocks, though we find that the adjustment process is slower for households who are poorer in steady state.'] [" Data from China's national rural and urban household surveys are used to measure and explain the welfare impacts of changes in goods and factor prices attributable to accession to the World Trade Organization. The price changes are estimated separately using a general equilibrium model to capture both direct and indirect effects of the initial tariff changes. The welfare impacts are first-order approximations based on a household model incorporating own-production activities calibrated to household-level data and imposing minimum aggregation. The results show negligible impacts on inequality and poverty in the aggregate. However, diverse impacts emerge across household types and regions, associated with heterogeneity in consumption behavior and income sources, with possible implications for compensatory policy responses. Copyright 2004, Oxford University Press."] [' Standard policy advice at times of fiscal adjustment is to protect public spending on the poor. However, the political economy of fiscal adjustment could well indicate the opposite direction, to protect the non-poor from adjustment. This point is illustrated by three case studies based on research on social programs in Argentina, Bangladesh, and India, focusing on how targeting performance varied with aggregate outlays. The results suggest a tendency for program spending on the non-poor that is protected from budget cuts.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' In a cross-country data set for developing and transitional economies, private consumption per capita from the national accounts deviates on average from mean household income or expenditure based on national sample surveys. Growth rates also differ systematically, so that the ratio of the survey mean to mean consumption from the national accounts tends to fall over time. The exceptions to these general findings are revealing, however. There are strong regional effects. The aggregate difference in the levels is due more to income surveys than to expenditure surveys. Divergence over time is mainly due to the severe data problems in the (contracting) transition economies. \xc2\xa9 2003 President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ["The effects of public investments aimed at directly improving children's health are theoretically ambiguous, since the outcomes also depend on indirect effects through parental inputs. The authors investigate the role of such inputs in influencing the incidence of child health gains from access to piped water in rural India. Using propensity score matching methods, they find that the prevalence and duration of diarrhea among children under five are significantly less on average for families with piped water than for families without it. But health gains largely bypass children in poor families, particularly when the mother is poorly educated. The author's findings point to the importance of combing infrastructure investments with effective public action to promote health knowledge and income poverty reduction.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' We apply recent advances in propensity-score matching (PSM) to the problem of estimating the distribution of net income gains from an Argentinean workfare program. PSM has a number of attractive features in this context, including the need to allow for heterogeneous impacts, while optimally weighting observed characteristics when forming a comparison group. The average direct gain to the participant is found to be about half the gross wage. Over half of the beneficiaries are in the poorest decile nationally, and 80% are in the poorest quintile. Our PSM estimator is reasonably robust to a number of changes in methodology.'] ['It is important to know how aggregate economic growth or contraction was distributed according to initial levels of living. In particular, to what extent can it be said that growth was"pro-poor?"There are problems with past methods of addressing this question, notably that the measures used are inconsistent with the properties that are considered desirable for a measure of the level of poverty. The authors provide some new tools for assessing to what extent the aggregate growth process in an economy is pro-poor. The key measurement tools is the"growth incidence curve,"which gives growth rates by quantiles (such as percentiles) ranked by income. Taking the area under this curve up to the headcount index of poverty gives a measure of the rate of pro-poor growth consistent with the Watts index for the level of poverty. The authors give examples using survey data for China during the 1990s. Over 1990-99, the ordinary growth rate of household income per capita in China was 7 percent a year. The growth rate by quantile varied from 3 percent for the poorest percentile to 11 percent for the richest, while the rate of pro-poor growth was around 4 percent. The pattern was reversed for a few years in the mid-1990s, when the rate of pro-poor growth rose to 10 percent a year--above the ordinary growth rate of 8 percent.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Comparing changes in inequality with initial levels, using new data, the author finds that within-country inequality in income or per capita consumption is converging toward medium levels--a Gini index around 40 percent. The finding is robust to allow for serially independent measurement error in inequality data and for short-run dynamics around longer-term trends. However, the convergence process is neither rapid nor certain, and more observations over time are needed to be confident of the pattern. The author offers an approach to modeling the determinants of inequality that may be a starting point for estimating richer models.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["The author identifies conditions under which the urban sector's share of the poor population in a developing country will be a strictly increasing and strictly convex function of its share of the total population. Cross-sectional data afor 39 countries and time-series data for for India are consistent with the expected theoretical relationship. The empirical results imply that the poor urbanize faster than the population as a whole. But the experience across developing countries suggests that a majority of the poor will still live in rural areas long after most people in the developing world live in urban areas.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['Macroeconomic adjustment programs often emphasize the need to protect social spending from cuts, and to protect pro-poor spending in particular. But does this happen in practice during fiscal contractions? The paper presents evidence for Argentina. Using aggregate time series data the paper first finds that social spending was not protected historically, although more "pro-poor" social spending was no more vulnerable. Turning next to new data for an externally-financed workfare scheme introduced in response to a macro crisis, the paper finds that this program was far better targeted than other social spending. However, it appears that the program still had to assure that a small but relatively well-protected share of its benefits went to the non-poor. This appears to be a political economy constraint.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Has poverty continued to fall with growth in India in the 1990s, or has the nature of the growth process changed, such that the poor have been left behind? This paper tries to answer those questions. We do not attempt to assess the impact of India's macroeconomic reforms of the 1990s on poverty, since this would require identification of the counterfactual of what would have been experienced in the 1990s without the reforms. Rather, our aim is to describe what has happened to poverty in India in the 1990s. In the course of the discussion, we will learn about the proximate causes of changes in India's poverty rate. Moreover, although this discussion is India-specific, it illustrates themes that are often encountered in the analysis of poverty in low-income economies, including difficult issues of survey design and comparability and the proximate factors underlying the responsiveness of poverty to economic growth."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The evidence is compelling that the poor in developing countries do typically share in the gains from rising aggregate affluence and in the losses from aggregate contraction. But how much do poor people share in growth? Do they gain more in some settings than others? Do some gain while others lose? Does pro-poor growth mean more or less aggregate growth? Recent theories and evidence suggest some answers, but deeper microeconomic empirical work is needed on growth and distributed change. Only then will we have a firm basis for identifying the specific policies and programs needed to complement and possibly modify growth-oriented policies.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Does risk perpetuate poverty in a credit-constrained economy? Jalan and Ravallion study portfolio and other behavioral responses to measured risk using household panel data for rural China. One-quarter of wealth is held in unproductive liquid forms. But only a small share of this appears to be a precaution against income risk. The authors estimate that eliminating income risk would reduce the share of wealth held in liquid form by less than 1 percentage point. Moreover, that effect is confined largely to middle-income groups; high-income households do not, it seems, need to hold unproductive cautionary wealth, and the poor probably cannot afford to do so. The authors find no evidence that income risk discourages schooling, but risk does inhibit the out- migration of labor. Generally, the results provide only limited support for the idea that uninsured risks promote unproductive portfolio behavior in this setting. There is such an effect, but it is small in magnitude and cannot be deemed an important cause of poverty.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" We argue that the welfare inferences drawn from answers to subjective-qualitative survey questions are clouded by concerns over the structure of measurement errors and how latent psychological factors influence observed respondent characteristics. We propose a panel data model that allows more robust tests and we estimate the model on a high-quality survey for Russia. We find significant income effects on an individual's subjective economic welfare. Demographic effects are weak at given income per capita. Ill-health and becoming unemployed lower welfare at given current income, although the unemployment effect is not robust, and returning to work does not restore welfare without an income gain. Copyright 2001 by The London School of Economics and Political Science"] [' Drawing on 297 national sample surveys spanning 88 countries, we find that there was a net decrease in the overall incidence of both absolute and relative consumption poverty between 1987 and 1998. But it was not enough to reduce the total number of poor by various definitions. The incidence of absolute poverty fell in Asia, Latin America, and the Middle East-North Africa, while it rose in Sub-Saharan Africa and Eastern Europe-Central Asia. Over the whole data set, interpersonal distribution improved slightly from the point of view of the poor, due mainly to growth in China. Copyright 2001 by The International Association for Research in Income and Wealth.'] [" How can a central government monitor the performance of a decentralized poverty program when the incidence of the program's benefits is unobserved at the local level? This article shows that, using a poverty map and the corresponding spending allocation across geographic areas, one can identify the latent differences in mean program allocations to the poor and the non poor. The national measure of targeting performance can also be decomposed into subgroups. An application to an antipoverty program in Argentina is used to assess the program's performance before and after reforms. Increases in funding and changes in program design brought large gains to the poor, although performance differed across provinces. Copyright 2000 by Oxford University Press."] [" It is often argued that child labour comes at the expense of schooling and so perpetuates poverty for children from poor families. To test this claim we study the effects on children's labour force participation and school enrollments of the pure school-price change induced by a targeted enrollment subsidy in rural Bangladesh. Our theoretical model predicts that the subsidy increases schooling, but its effect on child labour is ambiguous. Our empirical model indicates that the subsidy increased schooling by far more than it reduced child labour. Substitution effects helped protect current incomes from the higher school attendance induced by the subsidy."] [' We find that the distribution of income matters to aggregate carbon dioxide emissions and hence global warming. Higher inequality, both between and within countries is associated with lower carbon emissions at given average incomes. We also confirm that economic growth generally comes with higher emissions. Thus our results suggest that trade-offs exist between climate control (on the one hand) and both social equity and economic growth (on the other). However, economic growth improves the trade off with equity, and lower inequality improves the trade off with growth. By combining growth with equity, more pro-poor growth processes yield better longer-term trajectories of carbon emissions. Copyright 2000 by Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The geographic location of banks' branches is used to test whether they are responding to unexploited gains from nonfarm rural development in Bangladesh. The branch locations of Bangladesh's Grameen Bank are compared with those of traditional banks. The potential gains from switching out of farming are measured, allowing for heterogeneity in household characteristics conducive to success in nonfarm activities. It is found that many farmers are poorly equipped for success in nonfarm enterprises. Even so, seemingly feasible but unrealized gains from switching are revealed. Grameen Bank is attracted to areas where those gains favor the poor. Other banks appear to put higher weight on gains to those other than the poor. Copyright 2000 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd"] [" We define 'transient poverty' as the component of time-mean consumption poverty at household level that is directly attributable to variability in consumption; this can be thought of as a measure of vulnerability to falling consumption. The non-transient component then depends solely on mean consumption over time, and we call this 'chronic poverty'. Using robust semi-parametric methods and household panel data for rural China, we test whether transient poverty is determined by a process that is similar to chronic poverty. Commonly identified causes of poverty in this setting have weak explanatory power for transient poverty and some of the factors determining transient poverty do not matter to chronic poverty, or even have the opposite effect. Successful policy responses to chronic poverty may still leave considerable transient poverty."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We show that subjective poverty lines can be derived using simple qualitative assessments of perceived consumption adequacy based on a household survey. We implement the method using survey data for Jamaica and Nepal. Respondents were asked whether their consumptions of food, housing, and clothing were adequate for their family\'s needs. The implied poverty lines are robust to alternative methods of dealing with other components of expenditure. The aggregate poverty rates accord quite closely with those based on independent "objective" poverty lines. However, there are notable differences in the geographic and demographic poverty profiles. \xc2\xa9 2000 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] [' Assessments of the distributional effects of public spending reforms have generally been based on average rates of program participation by income or expenditure group. This practice can be deceptive because the socioeconomic composition of participants can change as a social program expands or contracts. The geographic variation found in 1993-94 household survey data for rural India is used to estimate the marginal odds of participating in schooling and antipoverty programs. The results suggest early capture of these programs by the non poor. It is shown that conventional methods for assessing benefit incidence underestimate the gains to the poor from higher public outlays and underestimate the losses from cuts. Copyright 1999 by Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Workfare programs aim to reduce poverty by providing low-wage work to those who need it. They are often turned to in a crisis. This article offers some simple analytical tools that can be used to rapidly appraise the cost-effectiveness of an existing workfare operation as a basis for deciding whether the program should be expanded. For pedagogic purposes, two stylized versions of a range of programs found in practice are analyzed: one for a middle-income country, the other for a low-income country. The cost of a given gain to the poor is about the same for both programs, although the components of that cost are very different, with implications for the timing of benefits. The author points to program design changes that could enhance the impact on poverty. Copyright 1999 by Oxford University Press.'] [' Economists often advise governments to target their spending better when cuts are called for. This paper asks whether that advice is consistent with a political-economy constraint that limits the welfare losses to the non-poor from spending cuts. A simple theoretical model shows that the answer is unclear on a priori grounds, and so will depend on the specifics of program design and financing. A case study for a World Bank-supported social program in Argentina illustrates how cuts can come with worse targeting performance; the allocation to the poor falls faster than that to the non-poor. Some lessons are drawn for how the poor might be better protected from cuts. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 1999'] ['The authors test how well consumption is insured against income risk in a panel of sampled households in rural China. They estimate the risk insurance models by Generalized Method of Moments, treating income and household size as endogenous. Insurance exists for all wealth groups, although the hypothesis of perfect insurance is universally rejected. Those in the poorest wealth decile are the least well-insured, with 40 percent of an income shock being passed on to current consumption. By contrast, consumption by the richest third ofhouseholds is protected from almost 90 percent of an income shock. The extent of insurance in a given wealth stratum varies little between poor and nonpoor areas.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" Armed with new data, we return to an old question from the pages of this journal: to what extent do India's rural poor share in agricultural growth? Combining data from 24 household sample surveys spanning 35 years with other sources, we estimate a model of the joint determination of consumption-poverty measures, agricultural wages, and food prices. We find that higher farm productivity brought both absolute and relative gains to poor rural households. A large share of the gains was via wages and prices, though these effects took time. The benefits to the poor were not confined to those near the poverty line."] ["Poor-area development programs- in which the government transfers extra resources to unusually poor areas -have been widely used to fight poverty. There has been some research on such programs, but little is known about their impact on household living standards over time. The authors address the issue for a sizable poor-area development program in rural China. China's program had a significant impact on rural living standards in the targeted areas of the sample. The consumption-growth model suggests that households living in the targeted areas had a higher rate of consumption growth than one would have otherwise expected. Nonetheless the authors found that while the gains in growth were enough to prevent an absolute decline in average living standards, they were not enough to reverse the strong underlying divergent tendencies in the rural economy.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Rural poverty rankings of Indian states in 1990 were very different from those of 1960. This unevenness in progress allows us to study the causes of poverty in a developing rural economy. The authors model the evolution of various poverty measures using pooled state-level data for the period 1957-91. Differences in trend rates of poverty reduction are attributed to differing growth rates of farm yield per acre and differing initial conditions; states starting with better infrastructure and human resources saw significantly higher long-term rates of poverty reduction. Deviations from trend are attributed to inflation, which hurt the poor in the short term, and shocks to farm and nonfarm output. Copyright 1998 by The London School of Economics and Political Science'] ["Do the poor face the same prospects for escaping poverty in high-inequality developing countries as in low-inequality countries? Is it possible for inequality to be so great as to stifle prospects of reducing absolute poverty, even when other initial conditions and policies are favorable to growth? Household survey data for developing countries suggest that initial distribution does affect how much the poor share in rising average incomes. Higher initial inequality tends to reduce growth's impact on absolute poverty. By the same token, higher inequality diminishes the adverse impact on the poor of general economic contraction. Combining this evidence with that from recent investigations of inequality's effect on growth, the author finds that, if inequality is high enough, countries that would have very good growth prospects at low levels of inequality may see little or no overall growth and little progress in reducing poverty - or even a worsening on both counts. The data the author uses suggest that such cases do occur. The precision with which key parameters have been estimated makes it difficult to say with confidence how common such cases are, but they appear to be in the minority. What appear to be the best available estimates suggest that about one-fifth of the spells between surveys he analyzed were cases in which poverty was rising, yet positive growth in the mean (and hence falling poverty) is predicted at zero inequality. Inequality can be high enough to result in rising poverty despite good underlying growth prospects.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Survey-based welfare indicators can fluctuate over time in ways which have little to do with macroeconomic changes in the economy. So basing policy decisions on short-term movements in such welfare indicators can be hazardous. There was a sharp increase in India's poverty measures in the aftermath of the mid-1991 crisis and the ensuing stabilization program. However, only one-tenth of the increase in measured poverty is explicable in terms of the variables one would expect to transmit the shock to poor people. Poverty measures soon returned to their pre-reform levels, belying the notion of a structural break induced by reforms. Copyright 1997 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd"] [' Famines have happened with and without crop failures or wars. But they invariably entail a collapse in the command over food of vulnerable subgroups within a society, whether through loss of endowment or a contraction in the amount of food that can be acquired from given endowments. Thus economic analysis can help understand famines, viewed as tragic aperiodic magnifications of normal market and governmental failures. Recent literature in economics and other fields has reflected this change in the conceptualization of famines, and it has come with policy implications for famine relieve and prevention.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Are the poor less healthy? Does public health spending matter more to them? The authors decompose aggregate health indicators using a random coefficients model in which the aggregates are regressed on the population distribution by subgroups, taking account of the statistical properties of the error term and allowing for other determinants of health status, including public health spending. This also allows them to test possible determinants of the variation in the underlying subgroup indicators. They implement the approach with data on health outcomes and poverty measures for 35 developing countries. The authors find that poor people have appreciably worse health status on average than others - and that differences in public health spending tend to matter more to the poor. This is probably because the nonpoor are in a better position to buy private health care.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' It has been claimed that in recent times the poor have lost ground, both relatively and absolutely, even when average levels of living have risen. This article tests that claim using household surveys for 67 developing and transitional economies over 1981-94. It finds that changes in inequality and polarization were uncorrelated with changes in average living standards. Distribution improved as often as it worsened in growing economies, and negative growth was often more detrimental to distribution than positive growth. Overall, there was a small decrease in absolute poverty, although with diverse experiences across regions aced countries. Almost always, poverty fell with growth in average living standards and rose with contraction. Copyright 1997 by Oxford University Press.'] ['Economists have relied heavily on household incomes or expenditures normalized for differences in household specific prices and demographics in their research and policy advice related to poverty and inequality. Recognizing the conceptual and empirical problems that confound such measures does not mean that they should be ignored. Instead, it indicates the need for supplementary measures to capture the missing items. Implementing a genuinely multidimensional approach will often make the welfare rankings of social states more difficult, but that fact points to the nonrobustness of low-dimensional rankings. This may have its own policy ramifications, with the possibility of correspondence between policy instruments and welfare objectives. The model types used to understand the poverty and inequity determination processes will be affected. Not only will there be more dependent variables to consider, but variables will have potentially complex relationships. These relationships will often be hard to empirically disentangle, despite richer integrated and longitudinal data sets. Such data open rich andrelevant agenda for research into the dynamics of poverty along multiple dimensions. A simultaneous attack on these issues from all three fronts - measurement, modeling, and data - offers hope of establishing a credible empirical foundation for public action in fighting poverty.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Using a new series of consistent, consumption-based poverty measures spanning forty years, we assess how much India's poor shared in the country's economic growth, taking into account its urban-rural and output composition. Rural consumption growth reduced poverty in both rural and urban areas. Urban growth brought some benefits to the urban poor, but had no impact on rural poverty. And rural-to-urban population shifts had no significant impact on poverty. Decomposing growth by output sectors, we found that output growth in the primary and tertiary sectors reduced poverty in both urban and rural areas but that secondary sector growth did not reduce poverty in either. Copyright 1996 by Oxford University Press."] [" No one doubts the good data are essential to sound policymaking. Alas, data are invariably faulty. Methodological solutions to data inadequacies have often been proposed and implemented, but they have been tested only rarely. Yet the methods that are used may well determine the direction of policy. For example, the particular survey method used--and the way nonsurvey data are interpreted--may be critical in assessing whether a country's strategy for reducing poverty is working. This article shows how counterfactual experiments can help test the reliability of various methods of dealing with common data problems. Well-designed methods--and they need not be very complicated--can help get around the problem, although it appears that substituting method for data is a long way from being perfect. Copyright 1996 by Oxford University Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The widely held view that larger families tend to be poorer in developing countries has influenced research and policy. The scope for size economies in consumption cautions against this view. We find that the correlation between poverty and size vanishes in Pakistan when the size elasticity of the cost of living is about 0-6. This turns out to be the elasticity implied by a modified version of the food share method of setting scales. By contrast, some measures of child nutritional status indicate an elasticity of unity. Considerations of the weight attached to child versus adult welfare may help resolve the non-robustness of demographic profiles of poverty. Copyright 1995 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" We assess the developing world's progress in reducing poverty during the late 1980s using new data on the distribution of household consumption or income per person for 44 countries. Local currencies are adjusted to purchasing power parity. To assess robustness, restricted dominance tests are applied to the poverty comparisons. An overall decrease in poverty incidence is indicated over a wide range of poverty lines and measures. However the change is small, and numbers of poor increased at roughly the rate of population growth. The experience was diverse across regions and countries; poverty fell in South and East Asia, while it rose in Latin America and sub-Saharan Africa. Copyright 1994 by The International Association for Research in Income and Wealth."] [' Current knowledge provides little guidance on one of the key questions in evaluating public employment schemes aimed at directly reducing poverty: What are the net income gains to participating workers? This paper offers an answer for rural public employment in two villages in the state of Maharashtra in India. A model of intrahousehold time allocation is proposed and estimates are made using household data over six years. The empirical implementation indicates that the projects induce significant behavioral responses. Transfer benefits are large and are greatly underestimated using prevailing market wage rates for similar work to estimate forgone incomes. Copyright 1994 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Comparisons of poverty, such as where or when poverty is greatest, typically matter far more for policy choices than do aggregate measures of poverty, such as how many people are deemed poor. We examine alternative methods for constructing poverty profiles, focusing on their internal consistency and appropriateness for guiding policy. None is perfect, but some methods appear to be preferable to others when the aim is to inform policies for fighting absolute-consumption poverty. A case study on Indonesia reveals that the country's regional and sectoral poverty profile is highly sensitive to some aspects of measurement but quite robust to others. Copyright 1994 by Oxford University Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Development is often taken to mean rising incomes. Discussions of the "goals of development" now often emphasize the reduction of poverty, rather than raising average incomes per se. The role of social services\xe2\x80\x94particularly basic health and education\xe2\x80\x94has also received greater emphasis in the 1980s, viewed mainly as instruments for raising the incomes of the poor. But, in all these approaches, income growth of one sort or another is what development is all about. A rather different view of the meaning of development has recently found expression in the 1990 Human Development Report (HRD) produced by the United Nations Development Programme. A conceptual underpinning for this approach can be found in the work of Amartya Sen. The essence of this view is that human development\xe2\x80\x94what people can actually do and be\xe2\x80\x94is the overriding purpose of economic development. Underdevelopment is viewed as the lack of certain basic capabilities, rather than lack of income per se. We do not aim here to advocate one of these approaches over the other, but rather to explore their implications for development policy. For instance, what does the human development approach imply about the role of economic growth and, in particular, about reducing income poverty? Should development priorities shift toward the provision of public services in poor countries, even if such a shift is at the expense of income growth?'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Conditions are derived for signing the employment effects in a unionized economy of a legislated cut in hours when productivity depends on the number of hours worked each week. Aggregate data suggest that employment will generally increase after a small cut in hours for the United Kingdom but the employment effect is ambiguous for Australia. Disaggregate data for Australia suggest that the employment effect of a cut in hours is often positive. However, any cut in hours imposed on a monopoly union, without a cut in pay, will unambiguously lead to a drop in employment. Copyright 1993 by The Economic Society of Australia.'] [' The hypothesis that consumption evolves over time as a martingale process is tested on household panel data for three villages in South India. A novel feature of the methodology is that it gives consistent estimates of dynamic effects in short panels. The estimated coefficients of lagged consumption are generally smaller than unity and a number of the lagged income and wealth variables are statistically significant. The results are inconsistent with the proposition that consumption equals permanent income. This is also true when the data are disaggregated by household wealth. Copyright 1993 by MIT Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Recent writings on poverty and hunger agree broadly on objectives and means but diverge significantly in emphasis. Views differ on the importance and function of economic growth and on how much weight to give to direct public support. These differences can matter in policy choices. "Hunger and Public Action" by Jean Dreze and Amartya Sen, is an important contribution to the literature on antihunger policy. This article critically examines the issues raised by the book, its differences with other recent writings, and the implications for both policy and future research on policy. Copyright 1992 by Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Econometric evidence on the evolution of real agricultural wages in Bangladesh over time has been used by some observers to argue that higher relative prices of food staples and higher agricultural productivity will help the rural poor. The authors re-examine this hypothesis using new data and a dynamic econometric model of wage determination. The model's specification avoids a number of shortcomings in past work, and the estimated equation gives a good yet parsimonious fit to annual data. Increases in rice prices relative to the prices of manufactured goods are found to have adverse effects on the real wages in terms of rice in both the short and long-run though there is full indexation relative to a bundle of goods in the long-run. On correcting for likely measurement errors in the official series, they find no evidence that changes in agricultural productivity have had a significant effect on real wage rates. Copyright 1991 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd"] ["The authors examine the structure of poverty in Indonesia by sector of employment, and how it changed during the adjustment period, 1984 to 1987. They find that, while aggregate poverty decreased during the period, the gains to the poor were quite uneven across regions and sectors. Gains to the rural sector in key regions were quantitatively important to Indonesia's success in alleviating poverty, they found. Most poverty exists -- and most gains in alleviating poverty were made -- in the rural farming sector. These gains were associated with crop diversification and continued growth in off-farm employment. The government's adjustment program favored rural areas and were crucial to Indonesia's evident success at maintaining momentum in alleviating poverty. However, one should not underrate the favorable conditions in Indonesia when adjustment started.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' The authors estimate that in 1985 about one in five persons in the developing world lived in poverty, judged by the standards of the poorest countries. This rises to one in three at a common, more generous, poverty line. The aggregate consumption short-fall of the poorest fifth is about one half of one percent of world consumption, while that of the poorest third is a further one percent. The shape of the distribution of consumption suggests that aggregate poverty would fall fairly rapidly if moderate growth in average consumption levels can be sustained, and the poor share at least proportionally in that growth. However, it would take only small adverse shifts in the world distribution of consumption to eliminate the gains to the poor from growth. Copyright 1991 by The International Association for Research in Income and Wealth.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' With the limited set of policy instruments typically available in the rural sectors of developing countries, imperfect coverage of the poor and leakage to the nonpoor must be expected from even the most well-intentioned poverty alleviation scheme, One way to reach the poor more effectively is to build incentives for self-selection into the scheme. Labor-intensive rural public works projects have the potential to reach and protect the poor, as well as to create and maintain rural infrastructure. The limited evidence for South Asia suggests that few nonpoor persons want to participate, and that both direct and indirect transfer and stabilization benefits to the poor can be sizable. These benefits can, however, be rapidly dissipated by a badly conceived and executed project; the details of how projects are selected, designed, and financed are crucial to success in both the short and long run. Copyright 1991 by Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Welfare distributional effects in a food producing economy of changes in the relative price of food are analyzed, allowing for labor market responses. Conditions for signing the welfare effects are derived for a stylized agricultural household and are tested for Bangladesh. Point estimates suggest that wage responses are unlikely to be strong enough to reject the partial equilibrium view that higher food prices have adverse distributional effects in the short run. Long-run welfare effects do appear to be more favorable to the poor, though it takes three or four years before the rual poor start to gain from a food price increase. Copyright 1990 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper examines the effects of risk-induced welfare variability on the expected value of a broad class of stochastic poverty measures. Theoretical conditions are derived for an increase in shared risk to increase expected poverty. The approach is applied to panel data for three villages in the semiarid tropics of India, where both risk and poverty are severe. The preferred welfare indicator, based on food consumption, suggests that variability had negligible effect on the proportion of the population who are poor. However, the poverty reduc tion benefits from stabilization policies are far from negligible when effects on persistent poverty are considered. Copyright 1988 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Private transfer payments are modeled as outcomes of a constrained social choice pro blem facing donors. The approach is applied to a large household leve l data set for Java and hypotheses are tested concerning the performa nce of the "moral economy" as a social security system. Transfer be havior is found to be very different between rural and urban areas. W hile transfer receipts and outlays are income inequality reducing in rural areas, this is not the case in urban areas. There is also evidence of transfers being targeted to disadvantaged households such as the sick, elderly, and (for urban areas) the unemployed. Copyright 1988 by MIT Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' People often seem to gain present satisfaction from contemplating a favorable future. This paper examines the implications of such behavior for expectations formation. Formally, satisfaction is said to be derived from "contemplation" whenever ex post utility depends on expectations independently of their bearing on ex ante actions. Contemplation is shown to be necessary and sufficient for informationally biased forecasting in a model of the intertemporal consumption decision. Thus the Muth-rationality of expectations requires restrictions on the (derived) preference ordering over expectations and realizations which preclude contemplation. Bias tests of surveyed expectations are given a choice-theoretic interpretation. Copyright 1986 by WWZ and Helbing &amp; Lichtenhahn Verlag AG'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This note identifies some conditions under which the wage rate for a given labour might be expected to vary within an urban area. An approach to this question is suggested based on a theory of wage determination which allows the location of activities to influence the supply of labour to spatially segmented markets.'] [" In theory, the informational advantage of decentralizing the eligibility criteria for a federal antipoverty program could come at a large cost to the program's performance in reaching the poor nationally. Whether this happens in practice depends on the size of the local-income effect on the eligibility cutoffs. China's Di Bao program provides a case study. Poorer municipalities adopt systematically lower thresholds--roughly negating intercity differences in need for the program and generating considerable horizontal inequity, so that poor families in rich cities fare better. The income effect is not strong enough to undermine the program's overall poverty impact; other factors, including incomplete coverage of those eligible, appear to matter more. Copyright The Author 2009. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / the world bank . All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org, Oxford University Press."]