 ['We examine the evolution of real per capita GDP around 100 systemic banking crises. Part of the costs of these crises owes to the protracted nature of recovery. On average, it takes about 8 years to reach the pre-crisis level of income; the median is about 6.5 years. Five to six years after the onset of crisis, only Germany and the United States (out of 12 systemic cases) have reached their 2007-2008 peaks in real income. Forty-five percent of the episodes recorded double dips. Post-war business cycles are not the relevant comparator for the recent crises in advanced economies.'] ['Many emerging market economies are dollarized in varying degrees. How important is this for the conduct of monetary policy and choice of exchange rate regime? We propose a composite measure of dollarization, identify its major trends, and ascertain its impact on the effectiveness of monetary and exchange rate policy. We find that, contrary to the presumption in the literature, a high degree of dollarization does not pose an obstacle to monetary control or to disinflation. A high level of dollarization does appear to increase exchange rate pass-through, reinforcing the claim that "fear of \xc3\xaf\xc2\xac\xe2\x80\x9aoating" is a greater problem for highly dollarized economies.'] [" Historically, capital flow bonanzas have often fueled sharp credit expansions in advanced and emerging market economies alike. Focusing primarily on emerging markets, this paper analyzes the impact of exchange rate flexibility on credit markets during periods of large capital inflows. It is shown that bank credit is larger and its composition tilts to foreign currency in economies with less flexible exchange rate regimes, and that these results are not explained entirely by the fact that the latter attract more capital inflows than economies with more flexible regimes. The findings thus suggest countries with less flexible exchange rate regimes may stand to benefit the most from regulatory policies that reduce banks' incentives to tap external markets and to lend/borrow in foreign currency; these policies include marginal reserve requirements on foreign lending, currency-dependent liquidity requirements and higher capital requirement and/or dynamic provisioning on foreign exchange loans."] ['This paper offers a "panoramic" analysis of the history of financial crises dating from England\'s fourteenth-century default to the current United States sub-prime financial crisis. Our study is based on a new dataset that spans all regions. It incorporates a number of important credit episodes seldom covered in the literature, including for example, defaults and restructurings in India and China. As the first paper employing this data, our aim is to illustrate some of the broad insights that can be gleaned from such a sweeping historical database. We find that serial default is a nearly universal phenomenon as countries struggle to transform themselves from emerging markets to advanced economies. Major default episodes are typically spaced some years (or decades) apart, creating an illusion that "this time is different" among policymakers and investors. A recent example of the "this time is different" syndrome is the false belief that domestic debt is a novel feature of the modern financial landscape. We also confirm that crises frequently emanate from the financial centers with transmission through interest rate shocks and commodity price collapses. Thus, the recent US sub-prime financial crisis is hardly unique. Our data also documents other crises that often accompany default: including inflation, exchange rate crashes, banking crises, and currency debasements.'] ['It is well understood that investment serves as a shock absorber at the time of crisis. The duration of the drag on investment, however, is perplexing. For the nine Asian economies we focus on in this study, average investment/GDP is about 6 percentage points lower during 1998-2012 than its average level in the decade before the crisis; if China and India are excluded, the estimated decline exceeds 9 percent. We document how in the wake of crisis home bias in finance usually increases markedly as public and private sectors look inward when external financing becomes prohibitively costly, altogether impossible, or just plain undesirable from a financial stability perspective. Also, previous studies have not made a connection between the sustained reserve accumulation and the persistent and significantly lower levels of investment in the region. Put differently, reserve accumulation involves an official institution (i.e., the central bank) funneling domestic saving abroad and thus competing with domestic borrowers in the market for loanable funds. We suggest a broader definition of crowding out, driven importantly by increased home bias in finance and by official capital outflows. We present evidence from Asia to support this interpretation.'] ['The historical frequency of banking crises is similar in advanced and developing countries, with quantitative parallels in both the run-ups and the aftermath. We establish these regularities using a dataset spanning from the early 1800s to the present. Banking crises weaken fiscal positions, with government revenues invariably contracting. Three years after a crisis central government debt increases by about 86%. The fiscal burden of banking crisis extends beyond the cost of the bailouts. We find that systemic banking crises are typically preceded by asset price bubbles, large capital inflows and credit booms, in rich and poor countries alike.'] ["The Federal Reserve's mandate has evolved considerably over the organization's hundred-year history. It was changed from an initial focus in 1913 on financial stability, to fiscal financing in World War II and its aftermath, to a strong anti-inflation focus from the late 1970s, and then back to greater emphasis on financial stability since the Great Contraction. Yet, as the Fed's mandate has expanded in recent years, its range of instruments has narrowed, partly based on a misguided belief in the inherent stability of financial markets. We argue for a return to multiple instruments, including a more active role for reserve requirements."] ['We identify the major public debt overhang episodes in the advanced economies since the early 1800s, characterized by public debt to GDP levels exceeding 90 percent for at least five years. Consistent with Reinhart and Rogoff (2010) and most of the more recent research, we find that public debt overhang episodes are associated with lower growth than during other periods. The duration of the average debt overhang episode is perhaps its most striking feature. Among the 26 episodes we identify, 20 lasted more than a decade. The long duration belies the view that the correlation is caused mainly by debt buildups during business cycle recessions. The long duration also implies that the cumulative shortfall in output from debt overhang is potentially massive. These growth-reducing effects of high public debt are apparently not transmitted exclusively through high real interest rates, as in eleven of the episodes, interest rates are not materially higher.'] ['Periods of high indebtedness have historically been associated with a rising incidence of default or restructuring of public and private debts. Sometimes the debt restructuring is more subtle and takes the form of \xe2\x80\x9cfinancial repression\xe2\x80\x9d. Consistent negative real interest rates are equivalent to a tax on bond holders and, more generally, savers. In the heavily regulated financial markets of the Bretton Woods system, a variety of financial domestic and international restrictions facilitated a sharp and rapid reduction or \xe2\x80\x9cliquidation\xe2\x80\x9d of public debt from the late 1940s to the 1970s. The restrictions or regulatory measures of that era had their origins in what would now come under the heading of \xe2\x80\x9cmacroprudential\xe2\x80\x9d concerns in the wake of the severe banking crises that swept many countries in the early 1930s. The surge in public debts that followed during the Great Depression and through World War II only made the case for stable and low interest rates and directed credit more compelling to policymakers. The resurgence of financial repression in the wake of the 2007-2009 financial crises alongside the surge in public debts in advanced economies is documented here. This process of financial \xe2\x80\x9cde-globalisation\xe2\x80\x9d may have only just begun.'] ['En los \xc3\xbaltimos diez a\xc3\xb1os, las autoridades de pol\xc3\xadtica en distintos pa\xc3\xadses emergentes han optado por limitar las fluctuaciones del valor de sus monedas respecto al d\xc3\xb3lar americano. En este documento se utiliza una relaci\xc3\xb3n de paridad de tasas de inter\xc3\xa9s para identificar las fuentes potenciales de presiones alcistas en el valor del tipo de cambio y para explicar las opciones de pol\xc3\xadtica orientadas a contener dichas presiones. Se documenta en qu\xc3\xa9 medida la acumulaci\xc3\xb3n de reservas internacionales ha sido esterilizada y se provee una lista minuciosa de las principales iniciativas de pol\xc3\xadtica relacionadas a acotar las fuerzas, que de otra forma apreciar\xc3\xadan el tipo de cambio en m\xc3\xa1s de cien pa\xc3\xadses. La evaluaci\xc3\xb3n de los esfuerzos de pol\xc3\xadtica muestra una amplia variedad de herramientas utilizadas con el objetivo de contener la ola de flujos de capitales.'] ['Considerable debate rages about whether Federal Reserve policy was too lax in the early part of the 2000s, thereby fueling the home-price bubble that was the proximate cause of the global financial crisis. We present evidence that the view that modest alterations to monetary policy have vast consequences is inconsistent with theory and not supported by evidence. We take a close look at the responses of asset markets to changes in the short-term policy interest rate since the founding of the Fed in 1914. Changes in the federal funds rate have no systematic effect on either long-term interest rates or housing prices over nearly a century. Indeed, since the mid-1990s the policy rate had a negative relationship with long-term interest rates. This is consistent with a global view of capital markets where massive cross-border flows shape the availability of domestic credit and asset prices. The evidence casts doubts on arguments that a moderately different monetary policy path might have mattered.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Newly developed historical time series on public debt, along with data on external debts, allow a deeper analysis of the debt cycles underlying serial debt and banking crises. We test three related hypotheses at both "world" aggregate levels and on an individual country basis. First, external debt surges are an antecedent to banking crises. Second, banking crises (domestic and those in financial centers) often precede or accompany sovereign debt crises; we find they help predict them. Third, public borrowing surges ahead of external sovereign default, as governments have "hidden domestic debts" that exceed the better documented levels of external debt. (JEL E44, F34, F44, G01, H63, N20)'] ['This paper examines the behavior of real GDP (levels and growth rates), unemployment, inflation, bank credit, and real estate prices in a twenty one-year window surrounding selected adverse global and country-specific shocks or events. The episodes include the 1929 stock market crash, the 1973 oil shock, the 2007 U.S. subprime collapse and fifteen severe post-World War II financial crises. The focus is not on the immediate antecedents and aftermath of these events but on longer horizons that compare decades rather than years. While evidence of lost decades, as in the depression of the 1930s, 1980s Latin America and 1990s Japan are not ubiquitous, GDP growth and housing prices are significantly lower and unemployment higher in the ten-year window following the crisis when compared to the decade that preceded it. Inflation is lower after 1929 and in the post-financial crisis decade episodes but notoriously higher after the oil shock. We present evidence that the decade of relative prosperity prior to the fall was importantly fueled by an expansion in credit and rising leverage that spans about 10 years; it is followed by a lengthy period of retrenchment that most often only begins after the crisis and lasts almost as long as the credit surge.// El presente art\xc3\xadculo examina el comportamiento del PIB real (montos y tasas de crecimiento), el desempleo, la inflaci\xc3\xb3n, el cr\xc3\xa9dito bancario y los precios de los bienes ra\xc3\xadces a lo largo de un periodo de 21 a\xc3\xb1os en torno de una serie de importantes sucesos y choques adversos, tanto globales como espec\xc3\xadficos por pa\xc3\xads. Entre estos episodios se encuentran la ca\xc3\xadda del mercado accionario de 1929, la crisis petrolera de 1973, el colapso de los cr\xc3\xa9ditos subprime de 2007 en los Estados Unidos y 15 crisis financieras severas posteriores a la segunda Guerra Mundial. Se hace hincapi\xc3\xa9 no en los antecedentes inmediatos y las repercusiones de estos sucesos, sino en horizontes m\xc3\xa1s amplios que comparan decenios y no a\xc3\xb1os. Si bien la evidencia de d\xc3\xa9cadas perdidas, como es el caso de la depresi\xc3\xb3n del decenio de los treinta, el decenio de los ochenta en la Am\xc3\xa9rica Latina y de los noventa en Jap\xc3\xb3n no es omnipresente, el crecimiento del PIB y los precios de la vivienda son significativamente m\xc3\xa1s bajos y el desempleo es mayor en el periodo de 10 a\xc3\xb1os posteriores a la crisis cuando se comparan estos datos con los del decenio precedente. La inflaci\xc3\xb3n es menor despu\xc3\xa9s de 1929 y en los episodios posteriores a las crisis financieras, pero claramente mayor despu\xc3\xa9s de la crisis petrolera. Presentamos pruebas de que el decenio de relativa prosperidad que antecedi\xc3\xb3 al colapso estuvo importantemente impulsado por un periodo de expansi\xc3\xb3n del cr\xc3\xa9dito y apalancamiento creciente que se extiende a lo largo de 10 a\xc3\xb1os. Despu\xc3\xa9s del colapso se presenta un largo periodo de recortes econ\xc3\xb3micos que en la mayor\xc3\xada de los casos no comienza sino hasta pasada la crisis y se prolonga casi tanto como el aumento repentino del cr\xc3\xa9dito.'] ['There is a rich scholarly literature on sovereign default on external debt. Comparatively little is known about sovereign defaults on domestic debt. Even today, cross-country data on domestic public debt remains curiously exotic, particularly prior to the 1980s. We have filled this gap in the literature by compiling a database on central government public debt (external and domestic). The data span 1914 to 2007 for most countries, reaching back into the nineteenth century for many. Our findings on debt sustainability, sovereign defaults, the temptation to inflate, and the hierarchy of creditors only scratch the surface of what the domestic public debt data can reveal. First, domestic debt is big -- for the 64 countries for which we have long time series, domestic debt accounts for almost two-thirds of total public debt. For most of the sample, this debt carries a market interest rate (except for the financial repression era between WWII and financial liberalization). Second, the data go a long ways toward explaining the puzzle of why countries so often default on their external debts at seemingly low debt thresholds. Third, domestic debt has largely been ignored in the vast empirical work on inflation. In fact, domestic debt (a significant portion of which is long term and non-indexed) is often much larger than the monetary base in the run-up to high inflation episodes. Last, the widely-held view that domestic residents are strictly junior to external creditors does not find broad support.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['We document that the global scope and depth of the crisis the began 2007 is unprecedented in the post World War II era and, as such, the most relevant comparison benchmark is the Great Depression of the 1930s. Some of the similarities are examined but the analysis of the aftermath of severe financial crises is also extended to the most severe post-WWII crises. We discriminate between root causes of the crises, recurring crises symptoms, and common features which serve as amplifiers of the boom-bust cycle. Recurring temporal patterns in the boom-bust cycle and their broad sequencing is analyzed.'] ['This paper examines the behavior of real GDP (levels and growth rates), unemployment, inflation, bank credit, and real estate prices in a twenty one-year window surrounding selected adverse global and country-specific shocks or events. The episodes include the 1929 stock market crash, the 1973 oil shock, the 2007 U.S. subprime collapse and fifteen severe post-World War II financial crises. The focus is not on the immediate antecedents and aftermath of these events but on longer horizons that compare decades rather than years. While evidence of lost decades, as in the depression of the 1930s, 1980s Latin America and 1990s Japan are not ubiquitous, GDP growth and housing prices are significantly lower and unemployment higher in the ten-year window following the crisis when compared to the decade that preceded it. Inflation is lower after 1929 and in the post-financial crisis decade episodes but notoriously higher after the oil shock. We present evidence that the decade of relative prosperity prior to the fall was importantly fueled by an expansion in credit and rising leverage that spans about 10 years; it is followed by a lengthy period of retrenchment that most often only begins after the crisis and lasts almost as long as the credit surge.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The frequency of financial crises over recent decades makes an in-depth study of the phenomenon imperative. This should involve particular attention to those points the different crises have in common, so as to draw lessons that can be used by financial authorities, regulators and the actual participants in the financial system. The causes of the crisis and the efficacy (or inefficacy) of response by governments are essential aspects that must be studied in order to determine the lessons to be drawn and recommendations to be made. Besides their shared border and their strong economic, social and cultural links, Mexico and the United States have also in recent times faced deep financial crises which \xe2\x80\x94leaving aside the different historical moments and varying degrees of sophistication of their respective financial markets\xe2\x80\x94 have much in common. The Centro de Estudios Espinosa Yglesias (CEEY) brought together a group of experts in financial systems and public finance to debate the origin of the above-mentioned financial crises and the viability of means for anticipating them. This is particularly important since the environment in which we now find ourselves is one where technical advances and financial innovations are themselves a source of risk; this is because the speed of development often outstrips the capacity of regulators and financial supervisors to keep abreast of them. The experts also analyzed the responses of the respective authorities to the two crises, their effectiveness and alternative strategies that might have been applied. Finally, it was of interest to the CEEY to find mechanisms that might minimize the risk of financial crises and reduce the cost of the rescue programs that ensue upon them.// La frecuencia de las crisis financieras en decenios recientes hace imperativo profundizar en su estudio, en particular en los puntos en com\xc3\xban entre ellas, para inferir lecciones que puedan ser utilizadas por autoridades financieras, reguladores y por los propios participantes en un sistema financiero. Las causas de la crisis y la efectividad (o inefectividad) de la respuesta por parte de los gobiernos son aspectos esenciales por estudiar para determinar lecciones y recomendaciones. M\xc3\xa9xico y los Estados Unidos, adem\xc3\xa1s de compartir frontera y de sostener fuertes lazos econ\xc3\xb3micos, sociales y culturales, han enfrentado en la historia reciente grandes crisis financieras que \xe2\x80\x94a reserva de las diferencias de tiempo y del grado de refinaci\xc3\xb3n de sus respectivos mercados financieros\xe2\x80\x94 coinciden en muchos aspectos. El Centro de Estudios Espinosa Yglesias (CEEY) ha reunido a un grupo de expertos en sistemas financieros y finanzas p\xc3\xbablicas para debatir el origen de dichas crisis financieras y la viabilidad de anticiparlas. Esto es en particular relevante porque enfrentamos un entorno en que los avances tecnol\xc3\xb3gicos y la innovaci\xc3\xb3n financiera implican riesgos, debido a que muchas veces van un paso adelante de los reguladores y los supervisores financieros. Asimismo, se analiza las respuestas de las respectivas autoridades a las crisis, su efectividad y las opciones que podr\xc3\xadan haberse aplicado. Finalmente, es de inter\xc3\xa9s para el CEEY encontrar mecanismos que minimicen el riesgo de las crisis financieras y el costo de los rescates que les suceden.'] ['We study economic growth and inflation at different levels of government and external debt. Our analysis is based on new data on forty-four countries spanning about two hundred years. The dataset incorporates over 3,700 annual observations covering a wide range of political systems, institutions, exchange rate arrangements, and historic circumstances. Our main findings are: First, the relationship between government debt and real GDP growth is weak for debt/GDP ratios below a threshold of 90 percent of GDP. Above 90 percent, median growth rates fall by one percent, and average growth falls considerably more. We find that the threshold for public debt is similar in advanced and emerging economies. Second, emerging markets face lower thresholds for external debt (public and private) - which is usually denominated in a foreign currency. When external debt reaches 60 percent of GDP, annual growth declines by about two percent; for higher levels, growth rates are roughly cut in half. Third, there is no apparent contemporaneous link between inflation and public debt levels for the advanced countries as a group (some countries, such as the United States, have experienced higher inflation when debt/GDP is high.) The story is entirely different for emerging markets, where inflation rises sharply as debt increases.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The U.S recession of 2007 to 2009 is unique in the post-World-War-II experience by the broad company it kept. Activity contracted around the world, with the advanced countries of the North experiencing declines in spending normally the purview of the developing economies of the South. The last time that the economies of the North similarly headed south was the 1930s. This paper examines the role of policy in fostering recovery in that decade. With nominal short-term interest rates already near zero, monetary policy in most countries took the unconventional step of delinking currencies from the gold standard. However, analysis of a sample that includes developing countries shows that this was not as universally effective as often claimed, perhaps because the exit from gold was uncoordinated in time, scale, and scope and, in many countries, failed to bring about a substantial depreciation against the dollar. Fiscal policy was also active in the 1930s\xe2\x80\x94many countries sharply increased government spending\xe2\x80\x94but prone to reversals that may have undermined confidence. Countries that were more consistent in keeping spending high tended to recover more quickly.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['En este art\xc3\xadculo, un algoritmo cataloga las bonanzas de entradas de capital tanto a econom\xc3\xadas emergentes como a econom\xc3\xadas avanzadas desde 1980 a 2007 para 181 pa\xc3\xadses y desde 1960 a 2007 para un subconjunto de 66 econom\xc3\xadas de todas las regiones. Factores globales como los precios de los productos b\xc3\xa1sicos, las tasas de inter\xc3\xa9s internacional y el crecimiento de las econom\xc3\xadas m\xc3\xa1s grandes del mundo tienen un efecto sistem\xc3\xa1tico en el ciclo global de flujos de capital. Las bonanzas no son una bendici\xc3\xb3n para las econom\xc3\xadas avanzadas ni para los mercados emergentes. En el caso de estas \xc3\xbaltimas, las bonanzas de entradas de capital est\xc3\xa1n relacionadas con una mayor probabilidad de crisis econ\xc3\xb3micas. En los pa\xc3\xadses en desarrollo las bonanzas est\xc3\xa1n asociadas a pol\xc3\xadticas fiscales proc\xc3\xadclicas y a intentos por controlar o evitar una apreciaci\xc3\xb3n de la tasa de cambio, quemuy probablemente contribuyen a la vulnerabilidad econ\xc3\xb3mica. En el caso de las econom\xc3\xadas avanzadas,los resultados no son tan claros. Las bonanzas se relacionan con resultados macroecon\xc3\xb3micos m\xc3\xa1svol\xc3\xa1tiles en cuanto al crecimiento del PIB, la inflaci\xc3\xb3n y las cuentas externas; adem\xc3\xa1s, las bonanzasvan seguidas de un per\xc3\xadodo de crecimiento econ\xc3\xb3mico m\xc3\xa1s lento y de una disminuci\xc3\xb3n sostenidaen el precio de las acciones y de la vivienda.'] ['This paper examines the depth and duration of the slump that invariably follows severe financial crises, which tend to be protracted affairs. We find that asset market collapses are deep and prolonged. On a peak-to-trough basis, real housing price declines average 35 percent stretched out over six years, while equity price collapses average 55 percent over a downturn of about three and a half years. Not surprisingly, banking crises are associated with profound declines in output and employment. The unemployment rate rises an average of 7 percentage points over the down phase of the cycle, which lasts on average over four years. Output falls an average of over 9 percent, although the duration of the downturn is considerably shorter than for unemployment. The real value of government debt tends to explode, rising an average of 86 percent in the major post-World War II episodes. The main cause of debt explosions is usually not the widely cited costs of bailing out and recapitalizing the banking system. The collapse in tax revenues in the wake of deep and prolonged economic contractions is a critical factor in explaining the large budget deficits and increases in debt that follow the crisis. Our estimates of the rise in government debt are likely to be conservative, as these do not include increases in government guarantees, which also expand briskly during these episodes.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper introduces the concept of \xe2\x80\x9cdebt intolerance\xe2\x80\x9d, which manifests itself in the extreme duress many emerging markets experience at debt levels that would seem manageable by advanced country standards. We argue that \xe2\x80\x9csafe\xe2\x80\x9d external debt-to-GNP thresholds for debt intolerant countries are low, perhaps as low as 15 percent in some cases. These thresholds depend on a country\xe2\x80\x99s default and inflation history. Debt intolerance is linked to the phenomenon of serial default that has plagued many countries over the past two centuries. Understanding and measuring debt intolerance is fundamental to assess the problems of debt sustainability, debt restructuring, capital market integration, and the scope for international lending to ameliorate crises. Our goal is to make a first pass at quantifying debt intolerance, including delineating debtors\xe2\x80\x99 clubs and regions of vulnerability, on the basis on a history of credit events going back to the 1820s for over 100 countries.// Este art\xc3\xadculo presenta el concepto de la \xe2\x80\x9cintolerancia a la deuda\xe2\x80\x9d, que se manifiesta en la extrema presi\xc3\xb3n que experimentan muchos mercados emergentes por las deudas que parecer\xc3\xadan manejables seg\xc3\xban los est\xc3\xa1ndares de pa\xc3\xadses desarrollados. Argumentamos que los umbrales \xe2\x80\x9cseguros\xe2\x80\x9d de la relaci\xc3\xb3n deuda externa/PNB para pa\xc3\xadses con intolerancia a la deuda son bajos, quiz\xc3\xa1 de hasta 15% en algunos casos. Estos umbrales dependen de la trayectoria de morosidad e inflaci\xc3\xb3n de cada pa\xc3\xads. La intolerancia a la deuda est\xc3\xa1 vinculada con el fen\xc3\xb3meno de la morosidad recurrente que afecta a muchos pa\xc3\xadses desde hace dos siglos. La comprensi\xc3\xb3n y medici\xc3\xb3n de la intolerancia a la deuda es fundamental para evaluar los problemas provenientes de la sostenibilidad y reestructuraci\xc3\xb3n de la deuda, la integraci\xc3\xb3n de los mercados de capitales y el alcance de los pr\xc3\xa9stamos internacionales para aminorar las crisis. Nuestra meta es hacer un primer intento por cuantificar la intolerancia a la deuda, incluyendo la delineaci\xc3\xb3n de los clubes y regiones de vulnerabilidad de los deudores, tomando como base una historia de eventos de cr\xc3\xa9dito que data desde el decenio de 1820 de m\xc3\xa1s de 100 pa\xc3\xadses.'] ['Is the 2007-2008 U.S. sub-prime mortgage financial crisis truly a new and different phenomena? Our examination of the longer historical record finds stunning qualitative and quantitative parallels to 18 earlier post-war banking crises in industrialized countries. Specifically, the run-up in U.S. equity and housing prices (which, for countries experiencing large capital inflows, stands out as the best leading indicator in the financial crisis literature) closely tracks the average of the earlier crises. Another important parallel is the inverted v-shape curve for output growth the U.S. experienced as its economy slowed in the eve of the crisis. Among other indicators, the run-up in U.S. public debt and is actually somewhat below the average of other episodes, and its pre-crisis inflation level is also lower. On the other hand, the United States current account deficit trajectory is worse than average. A critical question is whether the U.S. crisis will prove similar to the most severe industrialized-country crises, in which case growth may fall significantly below trend for an extended period. Or will it prove like one of the milder episodes, where the recovery is relatively fast? Much will depend on how large the shock to the financial system proves to be and, to a lesser extent, on the efficacy of the subsequent policy response.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["Lucas (1990) argued that it was a paradox that more capital does not flow from rich countries to poor countries. He rejected the standard explanation of expropriation risk and argued that paucity of capital flows to poor countries must instead be rooted in externalities in human capital formation favoring further investment in already capital rich countries. In this paper, we review the various explanations offered for this paradox.' There is no doubt that there are many reasons why capital does not flow from rich to poor nations yet the evidence we present suggests some explanations are more relevant than others. In particular, as long as the odds of non repayment are as high as 65 percent for some low income countries, credit risk seems like a far more compelling reason for the paucity of rich-poor capital flows. The true paradox may not be that too little capital flows from the wealthy to the poor nations, but that too much capital (especially debt) is channeled to debt intolerant serial defaulters.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['It has frequently been argued that portfolio adjustments by international investors may transmit financial shocks across markets and borders. This notion, however, has not yet been examined with microeconomic data. One plausible mechanism through which shocks may propagate is through the effect of past gains and losses on investors\xe2\x80\x99 risk aversion. We test this hypothesis using a unique data set of the monthly country asset allocation of individual emerging market funds. We first present a simple model that analyzes the effect of heterogeneous changes in investors\xe2\x80\x99 risk aversion on portfolio decisions and stock prices. We then present empirical results that show that, consistent with the model, when funds\xe2\x80\x99 returns are relatively low compared to those of other funds, they adjust their holdings toward the average (or benchmark) portfolio. In other words, they tend to sell the assets of countries in which they were "overweight" and increase their exposure to countries in which they were "underweight." Building on this insight, we construct a matrix of financial interdependence reflecting the extent to which countries share a set of overexposed funds. Comparing this measure to indices of trade or bank linkages indicates that our index can improve predictions about which countries are likely to be affected by contagion from crisis centers.'] [' We develop a novel system of reclassifying historical exchange rate regimes. One key difference between our study and previous classifications is that we employ monthly data on market-determined parallel exchange rates going back to 1946 for 153 countries. Our approach differs from the IMF official classification (which we show to be only a little better than random); it also differs radically from all previous attempts at historical reclassification. Our classification points to a rethinking of economic performance under alternative exchange rate regimes. Indeed, the breakup of Bretton Woods had less impact on exchange rate regimes than is popularly believed. \xc2\xa9 2004 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['This paper introduces the concept of "debt intolerance," which manifests itself in the extreme duress many emerging market economies experience at levels of indebtedness that would seem manageable by advanced country standards. The paper argues that "safe" external debt-to-GNP thresholds for debt-intolerant countries depend on the country\'s default and inflation history and may be as low as 15 percent in some cases. Debt intolerance is linked to the phenomenon of serial default that has plagued many countries over the past two centuries. Understanding and measuring debt intolerance is fundamental to assessing the problems of debt sustainability, debt restructuring, capital market integration, and the scope for international lending to ameliorate crises. The paper makes a first pass at quantifying debt intolerance, including delineating debtors\' "clubs" and regions of vulnerability, based on a history of credit events for a large number of countries going back to the 1820s.'] [" Almost a decade after their initiation, financial reforms appear to have had little effect on the economies of Sub-Saharan Africa. Whether the blame falls on their initial design or on the partial nature of their implementation, liberalisation has not mobilised savings, deepened intermediation or raised investment. Yet Africa needs functioning financial markets for a more efficient allocation of resources and growth. How can African governments 'correct' their approach towards financial reform? A first step towards refining future policy choices requires an assessment of the short African experience with financial reforms. How has progress in institutional and policy reform affected financial deepening? How have gains in financial depth, if any, affected saving, consumption and investment? How does the African experience compare with that of other developing countries? These are some of the key issues we address in this paper. Copyright 2003, Oxford University Press."] ['Over the last 20 years, some financial events, such as devaluations or defaults, have triggered an immediate adverse chain reaction in other countries--which we call fast and furious contagion. Yet, on other occasions, similar events have failed to trigger any immediate international reaction. We argue that fast and furious contagion episodes are characterized by "the unholy trinity": (i) they follow a large surge in capital flows; (ii) they come as a surprise; and (iii) they involve a leveraged common creditor. In contrast, when similar events have elicited little international reaction, they were widely anticipated and took place at a time when capital flows had already subsided.'] [' Many emerging market countries have suffered financial crises. One view blames soft pegs for these crises. Adherents of this view suggest that countries move to corner solutions-hard pegs or floating exchange rates. We analyze the behavior of exchange rates, reserves, and interest rates to assess whether there is evidence that country practice is moving toward corner solutions. We focus on whether countries that claim they are floating are indeed doing so. We find that countries that say they allow their exchange rate to float mostly do not-there seems to be an epidemic case of "fear of floating." \xc2\xa9 2001 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['During the past decade a number of countries imposed capital controls that had two distinguishing features: they were asymmetric, in that they were designed principally to discourage capital inflows, and they were temporary. This paper studies formally the consequences of these policies, calibrates their potential effectiveness, and assesses their welfare implications in an environment in which the level of capital inflows can be suboptimal. In addition, motivated by the fact that these types of controls have often been left in place after the dissipation of the shock that lead to the controls being implemented, the paper evaluates the welfare cost of procrastination in removing these types of controls.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" Sovereign credit ratings play an important part in determining countries' access to international capital markets and the terms of that access. In principle, there is no reason to expect that sovereign credit ratings should systematically predict currency crises. In practice, in emerging market economies there is a strong link between currency crises and default. Hence if credit ratings are forward-looking and currency crises in emerging market economies are linked to defaults, it follows that downgrades in credit ratings should systematically precede currency crises. This article presents results suggesting that sovereign credit ratings systematically fail to predict currency crises but do considerably better in predicting defaults. Downgrades in credit ratings usually follow currency crises, possibly suggesting that currency instability increases the risk of default. Copyright 2002, Oxford University Press."] ['Three of the papers in this volume address various aspects of these issues\xe2\x80\x94in particular as regards the behavior and impact of sovereign credit ratings and the development of a portfolio model that lends itself to testing the vulnerability of banks. Two of the papers address issues related to the usefulness and impacts of sovereign credit ratings. A third paper is concernend with the default of banks. Or more precisely, how to limit bank failures through capital and provisioning measures.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['In this paper, we examine which markets are most synchronized internationally and exhibit the greater extent of comovement. We focus on daily data for four asset markets: bonds, equities, foreign exchange, and domestic money market. Our sample covers thirty-five developed and emerging market countries during 1997-1999. The extent of comovement and responsiveness to external shocks is examined in different ways. To measure the response of these markets to adverse external shocks, we date the peaks in domestic interest rates and bond spreads and the largest daily declines in equity prices and assess the extent of clustering around the same period. We also analyze which markets show evidence of greatest comovement in general, irrespective of whether there are adverse shocks or not.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['While high interest rates and foreign exchange sales are the most common way of dealing with a speculative attack in the foreign exchange market, several countries resorted to capital controls during recent periods of currency market turbulence. The purpose of this study is to use daily financial data to examine four of these capital controls episodes--Brazil, 1999, Malaysia 1998, Spain 1992, and Thailand 1997. We aim to assess the extent to which the capital controls were effective in delivering the outcomes that motivated their inception in the first place. We conclude that in two of the three cases (Brazil and Thailand), the controls did not deliver much of what was intended--although, one does not observe the counterfactual. By contrast, in the case of Malaysia the controls did align closely with the priors of what controls are intended to achieve: greater interest rate and exchange rate stability and more policy autonomy.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Since the Tequila crisis of 1994-95, the Asian flu of 1997, and the Russian virus of 1998, economists have been busy producing research on the subject of contagion. Yet, few studies have examined empirically through which channels the disturbances are transmitted if there are, indeed, fundamental reasons for the spillovers we observe. We attempt to fill this gap by analyzing how both trade links and the largely ignored financial sector links influence the pattern of fundamentals-based contagion. We examine the role of international bank lending, the potential for cross-market hedging, and bilateral and third-party trade in the propagation of crises.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This study examines the impact capital controls had in Malaysia (1998-1999) and Thailand (1997). We aim to assess the extent to which the capital controls were effective in delivering the outcomes that motivated their imposition. We conclude that in Thailand the controls did not deliver much of what was intended--although, one does not observe the counterfactual. By contrast, in the case of Malaysia the controls did align closely with the priors of what controls are intended to achieve: greater interest rate and exchange rate stability and more policy autonomy.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' In recent years, many developing countries have intervened in foreign exchange markets to offset to some extent the effect on their economies of large capital flows. Often changes in reserve requirements were used to mitigate the impact of that intervention on domestic money supplies. Because reserve requirements are a tax, however, changes in reserve requirements can have real effects. This paper shows that the exact implications for output, the real exchange rate and the capital and current accounts depend importantly on who--whether depositors or borrowers--pays the tax. In any case, foreign exchange intervention matched by changes in reserve requirements that keep the money supply fixed do influence the exchange rate in the short and, sometimes, the long run. The recent experiences of ten developing countries establish that, while the incidence of the tax varies considerably across countries and time, both deposit and lending rates of interest respond to changes in reserve requirements. Copyright @ 1999 by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd. All rights reserved.'] ['In the wake of the Mexican and Asian currency turmoil, the subject of financial crises have come to the forefront of academic and policy discussions. This paper analyzes the links between banking and currency crises. The authors find that problems in the banking sector typically precede a currency crisis--the currency crisis deepens the banking crisis, activating a vicious spiral; financial liberalization often precedes banking crises. The anatomy of these episodes suggests that crises occur as the economy enters a recession, following a prolonged boom in economic activity that was fueled by credit, capital inflows, and accompanied by an overvalued currency.'] ['Comment: Michael Dooley and Inseok Shin make a compelling case that the Korean financial crisis of 1997 was not the consequence of a misaligned exchange rate and external imbalance, nor was it the classic first-generation credit-financed fiscal deficit stressed by Krugman (1979). The authors also cast doubt on explanations of the Korean crisis that rely exclusively on a liquiditycrisis/banking panic story, as in Goldfajn and Valdes (1995), or on earlier models with self-fulfilling expectations (see, for instance, Obstfeld, 1994). Instead, they argue that the Korean banking and currency crises had their origins in the financial liberalization that took place in the earlier part of the 1990s.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['In the early 1990s capital flows to the Asian economies were dominated by FDI. By contrast, Latin America was attracting little FDI and a large share of its inflows were either short-term or portfolio and viewed as \xe2\x80\x9chot money.\xe2\x80\x9d These differences gave rise to the view that Latin America was more vulnerable to a reversal of capital flows than Asia. Yet, scant attention was given to the fact that as the capital inflows persisted those regional differences were eroding\xe2\x80\x93it took the crises of 1997 to reveal that Asia\xe2\x80\x99s exposure to the vagaries of short-term capital was vast. Here we present cross-country evidence that capital controls influence the composition of flows, if not their volume while policies of sterilized intervention influence both volume and composition, skewing flows to the short end of the maturity spectrum. We conclude that Asia\xe2\x80\x99s increasing reliance on short term flows was, in large part, due to the macroeconomic policy response to the initial surge in capital inflows.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['In this paper, we analyze the extent to which past financial crises share common characteristics in Latin America, Asia, Europe, and the Middle East. We examine the recent crises in Asia and in Latin America, in particular their severity, to assess whether the considerable historical differences that we have documented for the earlier sample have eroded. We conclude that in a deregulated world, the "well-behaved" Asian financia1 crises are a relic of the past.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper examines the empirical evidence on currency crises and proposes a specific early warning system. This system involves monitoring the evolution of several indicators that tend to exhibit an unusual behavior in the periods preceding a crisis. When an indicator exceeds a certain threshold value, this is interpreted as a warning "signal" that a currency crisis may take place within the following 24 months. The variables that have the best track record within this approach include exports, deviations of the real exchange rate from trend, the ratio of broad money to gross international reserves, output, and equity prices.'] ['Both theory and the empirical evidence for a broad range of countries have identified a negative relationship between domestic and foreign saving. Still, based on the experience of the 1990s, a popular view has emerged that domestic and foreign saving are positively related in Asia and negatively related in Latin America. We argue that this popular discussion does not discriminate between trends in domestic saving (which are very different in the two regions) and the cyclical component of saving, which is linked to capital flows. We show that, when trend and cyclical components of domestic saving and capital flows are properly taken into account, the two regions do not differ in the short-run response of domestic saving to capital inflows. We conclude that the main differences pertain to the long-run behavior of saving rates, which are driven by trends in demographic factors, per capita GDP, and other factors that have little to do with fluctuations in capital flows.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['In this paper, we use long-run annual data to estimate the intertemporal elasticity of substitution while accounting for the intra-temporal substitution between nondurable consumption goods and durable consumption goods. We apply a two-step procedure that combines a cointegration approach to preference parameter estimation with Generalized Method of Moments.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["As pointed out by Hall (1988), intertemporal substitution by consumers is a central element of many modern macroeconomic and international models. For example, many of the policy implications of an endogenous growth model studied by Barro (1990) depends on the assumption that the intertemporal elasticity of substitution is positive. In estimating the intertemporal elasticity of substitution (IES), however, Hall (1988) fmds that when time aggregation is taken into account, his point estimates are small and not significantly different from zero. Hall concludes that ti:e elasticity is unlikely to be much above 0.1 and may well be zero. We argue that Hall's estimator for the IES is downward biased because the intra-temporal substitution between nondurable consumption goods and durable consumption goods is ignored and because the changes in real interest rates affect user costs of durable goods. We use a two-step procedure that combines a cointegration approach to preference parameter estimation with Hansen and Singleton's (1982) Generalized Method of Moments approach in order to take these effects into account. In contrast to Hall's result, our estimates for the IES are positive and significantly different from zero even when time aggregation is taken into account.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['The relationship between real interest rates, saving, and growth is a central issue in development economics. Using macroeconomic data for a cross-section of countries, we estimate a model in which the intertemporal elasticity of substitution varies with the level of wealth. The estimated parameters are used to calculate, in the context of a simple endogenous growth model, the responsiveness of saving to real interest rate changes for countries at differing stages of development. The hypothesis that the saving rate, and its sensitivity to the interest rate, are a rising function of income finds strong empirical support.'] ['In addition to altering fiscal, monetary, and exchange rate policies in response to the surge in international capital inflows in the early 1990s,policy makers in many countries in ASIa, Eastern Europe, and Latin America have resorted to measures to control capital inflows.We provide a preliminary assessment of the effects of some of the macroeconomic effects of these policies.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Half a decade has passed since the resurgence of international capital flows to many developing countries and history has, once again, shown that foreign investment is prone to repeated booms and busts. Mexico's 1994 crisis is but a recent example that highlights the vulnerability of capital-importing countries to abrupt reversals; thus, an aim of policy is to reduce that vulnerability. This paper discusses the principal causes, facts, and policies that have characterized capital inflows to Asia and Latin America. In particular, the authors examine what policies have proved useful in protecting these economies from the vagaries of international capital flow."] ['Traditional specifications of money demand have been commonly plagued by persistent overprediction, implausible parameter estimates, and highly autocorrelated errors. This paper argues that some of those problems stem from the failure to account for the impact of financial innovation. We estimate money demand for ten developing countries employing various proxies for the innovation process and provide an assessment of the relative importance of this variable. We find that financial innovation plays an important role in determining money demand and its fluctuations, and that the importance of this role increases with the rate of inflation.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["Exchange rate-based stabilization programs in chronic-inflation countries have often been accompanied by an initial expansion of private consumption followed by a contraction. This consumption cycle has been attributed to lack of credibility, in the sense that the public views the reduction in the devaluation rate as temporary. This paper assesses the quantitative relevance of the 'temporariness' hypothesis by comparing the predictions of a simple model to the actual figures for seven major programs. The paper concludes that nominal interest rates must fall substantially for the 'temporariness' hypothesis to account for an important fraction of the observed consumption booms.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["This paper presents a theoretical and empirical analysis of policies aimed at setting a more depreciated level of the real exchange rate. An intertemporal optimizing model suggests that, in the absence of changes in fiscal policy, a more depreciated level of the real exchange can only be attained temporarily. This can be achieved by means of higher inflation and/or higher real interest rates, depending on the degree of capital mobility. Evidence for Brazil, Chile, and Colombia supports the model's prediction that undervalued real exchange rates are associated with higher inflation.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['Devaluation is an integral part of adjustment in many developing countries, particularly relied upon by countries facing large external imbalances. A devaluation can only reduce trade imbalances if it translates to a real devaluation and if trade flows respond to relative prices in a significant and predictable manner. However, a recent strand in the empirical trade literature has questioned the existence of a stable relationship between trade flows and its traditional determinants. This paper re-examines the relationship between relative prices and imports and exports in a sample of 12 developing countries.'] [' "Since 1990, capital has flowed from industrial countries to developing regions like Latin America and parts of Asia. Most countries welcome reentry into international capital markets. However, capital inflows often are associated with inflationary pressures, a real exchange rate appreciation, a deterioration in the current account, and a boom in bank lending. This paper briefly examines how these inflows have altered the macroeconomic environment in a number of Asian and Latin American countries, and discusses the pros and cons of the policy options". Copyright 1994 Western Economic Association International.'] ['Este trabajo presenta un an\xc3\xa1lisis te\xc3\xb3rico y emp\xc3\xadrico de las pol\xc3\xadticas dirigidas a alcanzar un nivel m\xc3\xa1s depreciado de la tasa de cambio real. Un modelo de optimizaci\xc3\xb3n intertempolar sugiere que, en ausencia de cambios en la pol\xc3\xadtica fiscal, un nivel m\xc3\xa1s depreciado de la tasa de un mayor nivel de la inflaci\xc3\xb3n y/o tasa real de inter\xc3\xa9s, dependiendo del grado de movilidad de capital.'] ['The "traditional structural approach" to determining real commodity prices has relied exclusively on demand factors as the fundamentals that explain the behavior of commodity prices. This framework, however, has been unable to explain the marked and sustained weakness in these prices during the 1980s and 1990s. This paper extends that framework in two important directions: first, it incorporates commodity supply in the analysis, capturing the impact on prices of the sharp increase in commodity exports of developing countries during the debt crisis of the 1980s. Second, it takes a broader view of "world" demand that extends beyond the industrial countries and includes output developments in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. The empirical results support these extensions, as both the fit of the model improves substantially and, more important, its ability to forecast increases markedly.'] ['Primary commodities still account for the bulk of exports in many developing countries. However, real commodity prices have been declining almost continuously since the early 1980s. The appropriate policy response to a terms of trade shock depends importantly on whether the shock is perceived to be temporary or permanent. Our results indicate that the recent weakness in commodity prices is mostly secular, stressing the need for commodity exporting countries to concentrate on export diversification and other structural policies. There is, however, scope for stabilization funds and the use of hedging strategies, since the evidence also suggests commodity prices have become more volatile.'] ['In this short note we further discuss the role of macroeconomic policies to deal with surges in capital inflows. Primarily policies aimed at avoiding financial crises or an overvaluation of the real exchange rate.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The characteristics of recent capital inflows into Latin America are discussed. It is argued that these inflows are partly explained by conditions outside the region, like the recession in the United States and lower international interest rates. The importance of external factors suggests that a reversal of those conditions may lead to a future capital outflow, increasing the macroeconomic vulnerability of Latin American economies. Policy options, it is argued, are limited.'] ['We highlight in this note how an application of a similar estimation approach as ours to Colombian data for a more recent period following financial and capital account liberalization may find that the money supply is "endogenous" (i.e. demand-determined as long as the exchange rate is heavily managed.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The relationship between temporary terms of trade shocks and household saving in developing countries is examined. It is first shown that, from a theoretical standpoint, this relationship is ambiguous: private saving may rise or fall in response to a transitory terms of trade shock, depending on the values of the intertemporal elasticity of substitution and the intratemporal elasticity of substitution between traded and nontraded goods. Empirical estimates of these two parameters are obtained using data from a sample of 13 developing countries, and then used to draw implications for the response of private saving to transitory terms of trade shocks.'] ['The role of the international commodity market in transmitting disturbances is considered in a model that incorporates commodities as an input in production. The analysis employs a three-country framework: a liquidity-constrained commodity supplier and two industrial countries that import the commodity, export differentiated manufactured goods, and hold the outstanding debt of the commodity exporter. In this setting the impact of changes in fiscal policy, commodity supplies, and the real interest rate are assessed. Particular attention is paid to the responses of the real exchange rate, commodity prices, and the international distribution of debt to the various shocks.'] ['Using annual data for Colombia over the last 30 years, we test opposing theories that explain macroeconomic fluctuations: the neoclassical synthesis, which posits that in the presence of temporary price rigidity an unanticipated monetary expansion produces output gains that erode over time with increases in the price level; and an alternative explanation, which focuses on "real" technological or preference shocks as the sources of output changes. Coefficients from this system are used to examine the long-run neutrality of nominal quantities with respect to permanent movements in the money stock and the short-run sensitivity of output to inflation.'] ['Usando informaci\xc3\xb3n anual para Colombia en los \xc3\xbaltimos treinta a\xc3\xb1os y una bater\xc3\xada nueva de t\xc3\xa9cnicas econom\xc3\xa9tricas, evaluamos dos teor\xc3\xadas opuestas que explican las fluctuaciones econ\xc3\xb3micas: la s\xc3\xadntesis neocl\xc3\xa1sica, que plantea que en presencia de rigidez temporal en los precios, una expansi\xc3\xb3n monetaria no anticipada produce ganancias de producto que se desvanecen en el tiempo con incrementos del nivel de precios; y una explicaci\xc3\xb3n alternativa, que se centra en choques tecnol\xc3\xb3gicos y de preferencia reales" como fuente de las variaciones en el producto. "'] ['A model that merges the monetary approach to the balance of payments and a neoclassical growth model into a unified framework in which inflation, growth, and the balance of payments are simultaneously determined is estimated. The tradeoff between the simplifying assumptions of the model and its ability to fit reality is assessed in terms of a diverse sample of seven capital importing developing countries for which the key parameters of the model are estimated, and the sensitivity of the implied policy multipliers is determined.'] ['Despite the growing support for market-oriented strategies, and for a greater role of private investment, empirical growth models for developing countries typically make no distinction between the private and public components af investment. This paper sheds some light on this important issue by formulating a simple growth model that separates the effects of public sector and private sector investment. This model is estimated for a cross-section sample of 24 developing countries, and the results support the notion that private investment has a larger direct effect on growth than does public investment.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)']