 ['Recent empirical work suggests that small price changes are relatively common. This evidence has been used to criticize classic menu-cost models. In this paper, we use scanner data from a national supermarket chain and micro data from the Consumer Price Index to reassess the importance of small price changes. We argue that the vast majority of these changes are due to measurement error. We conclude that the evidence on the prevalence of small price changes is much too weak to be used as a litmus test of nominal rigidity models.'] ['The best predictor of current investment at the firm level is lagged investment. This lagged-investment effect is empirically more important than the cash-flow and Q effects combined. We show that the specification of investment adjustment costs proposed by Christiano et al. (2005) predicts the presence of a lagged-investment effect and that a generalized version of their model is consistent with the behavior of firm-level data from Compustat.'] [' We assess the importance of nominal rigidities using a new weekly scanner dataset. We find that nominal rigidities take the form of inertia in reference prices and costs, defined as the most common prices and costs within a given quarter. Reference prices are particularly inertial and have an average duration of roughly one year, even though weekly prices change roughly once every two weeks. We document the relation between prices and costs and find sharp evidence of state dependence in prices. We use a simple model to argue that reference prices and costs are useful statistics for macroeconomic analysis. (JEL L11, L25, L81)'] ['We examine the empirical properties of the payoffs to two popular currency speculation strategies: the carry trade and momentum. We review three possible explanations for the apparent profitability of these strategies. The first is that speculators are being compensated for bearing risk. The second is that these strategies are vulnerable to rare disasters or peso problems. The third is that there is price pressure in currency markets.'] ['We argue that the government-spending multiplier can be much larger than one when the zero lower bound on the nominal interest rate binds. The larger the fraction of government spending that occurs while the nominal interest rate is zero, the larger the value of the multiplier. After providing intuition for these results, we investigate the size of the multiplier in a dynamic, stochastic, general equilibrium model. In this model the multiplier effect is substantially larger than one when the zero bound binds. Our model is consistent with the behavior of key macro aggregates during the recent financial crisis.'] [' We study the properties of the carry trade, a currency speculation strategy in which an investor borrows low-interest-rate currencies and lends high-interest-rate currencies. This strategy generates payoffs that are on average large and uncorrelated with traditional risk factors. We argue that these payoffs reflect a peso problem. The underlying peso event features high values of the stochastic discount factor rather than very large negative payoffs. The Author 2011. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Society for Financial Studies. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org, Oxford University Press.'] ['Aggregate and sectoral comovement are central features of business cycles, so the ability to generate comovement is a natural litmus test for macroeconomic models. But it is a test that most models fail. We propose a unified model that generates aggregate and sectoral comovement in response to contemporaneous and news shocks about fundamentals. The fundamentals that we consider are aggregate and sectoral total factor productivity shocks as well as investment-specific technical change. The model has three key elements: variable capital utilization, adjustment costs to investment, and preferences that allow us to parameterize the strength of short-run wealth effects on the labor supply. (JEL E13, E20, E32)'] ['High interest rate currencies tend to appreciate relative to low interest rate currencies. We argue that adverse selection problems between participants in foreign exchange markets can account for this "forward premium puzzle." The key feature of our model is that the adverse selection problem facing market makers is worse when an agent wants to trade against a public information signal. So, when based on public information, the currency is expected to appreciate, there is more adverse selection associated with a sell order than with a buy order. (JEL E43, F31, G15)'] [" The influential Krugman-Flood-Garber (KFG) model of balance of payment crises assumes that a fixed exchange rate is abandoned if and only if international reserves reach a critical threshold value. From a positive standpoint, the KFG rule is at odds with many episodes in which the central bank has plenty of international reserves at the time of abandonment. We study the optimal exit policy and show that from a normative standpoint, the KFG rule is generally suboptimal. We consider a model in which the fixed exchange rate regime has become unsustainable due to an unexpected increase in government spending. We show that when there are no exit costs, it is optimal to abandon immediately. When there are exit costs, the optimal abandonment time is a decreasing function of the size of the fiscal shock. For large fiscal shocks, immediate abandonment is optimal. Our model is consistent with evidence suggesting that many countries exit fixed exchange rate regimes with still plenty of international reserves in the central bank's vault. Copyright 2008, Wiley-Blackwell."] [' We study the effects of news about future total factor productivity (TFP) in a small open economy. We show that an open-economy version of the neoclassical model produces a recession in response to good news about future TFP. We propose an open-economy model that generates comovement in response to TFP news. The key elements of our model are a weak short-run wealth effect on the labor supply and adjustment costs to labor and investment. We show that our model also generates comovement in response to news about future investment-specific technical change and to "sudden stops." Copyright (c) 2008 The Ohio State University.'] [' Market participants routinely take advantage of the failure of uncovered interest rate parity to speculate in currency markets. Perhaps the most widely used currency speculation strategy is the carry trade. In this article we take the perspective of an individual currency trader and document the gains to diversifying the carry trade across different currencies. We show that these gains are large. Diversification boosts the typical Sharpe ratio by over 50%. (c) 2008 by the European Economic Association.'] ['The carry trade strategy involves selling forward currencies that are at a forward premium and buying forward currencies that are at a forward discount. We compare the payoffs to the carry trade applied to two different portfolios. The first portfolio consists exclusively of developed country currencies. The second portfolio includes the currencies of both developed countries and emerging markets. Our main empirical findings are as follows. First, including emerging market currencies in our portfolio substantially increases the Sharpe ratio associated with the carry trade. Second, bid-ask spreads are two to four times larger in emerging markets than in developed countries. Third and most dramatically, the payoffs to the carry trade for both portfolios are uncorrelated with returns to the U.S. stock market.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" We explore the business cycle implications of expectation shocks and of two well-known psychological biases, optimismand overconfidence. The expectations of optimistic agents are biased toward good outcomes, whereas overconfident agentsoverestimate the precision of the signals that they receive. Both expectation shocks and overconfidence can increasebusiness-cycle volatility, while preserving the model's properties in terms of comovement and relative volatilities.In contrast, optimism is not a useful source of volatility in our model. (JEL: E3) (c) 2007 by the European Economic Association."] ['Large devaluations are generally associated with large declines in real exchange rates. We develop a model which embodies two complementary forces that account for the large declines in the real exchange rate that occur in the aftermath of large devaluations. The first force is sticky nontradable goods prices. The second force is the impact of real shocks that often accompany large devaluations. We argue that sticky nontradable goods prices generally play an important role in explaining post-devaluation movements in real exchange rates. However, real shocks can sometimes be primary drivers of real exchange rate movements.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper addresses two questions: (i) how do governments actually pay for the fiscal costs associated with currency crises; and (ii) what are the implications of different fi\xc2\xadnancing methods for post-crisis rates of inflation and depreciation? We study these questions using a general equilibrium model in which a currency crisis is triggered by prospective government defi\xc2\xadcits. We then use our model in conjunction with fiscal data to interpret government fi\xc2\xadnancing in the wake of three recent currency crises: Korea (1997), Mexico (1994) and Turkey (2001).<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Changes in the price of nontradable goods relative to tradable goods account for roughly 50 percent of the cyclical movements in real exchange rates<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['In this paper I review the contribution of real business cycles models to our understanding of economic fluctuations, and discuss open issues in business cycle research.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper argues that the primary force behind the large fall in real exchange rates that occurs after large devaluations is the slow adjustment in the price of nontradable goods and services. Our empirical analysis is based on data from four large devaluation episodes: Mexico (1994), Korea (1997), Brazil (1999), and Argentina (2001). We conduct a more detailed analysis of the Argentina case using disaggregated CPI data, data from our own survey of prices in Buenos Aires, and scanner data from supermarkets. We then construct an open economy general equilibrium model that can account for the slow adjustment in nontradable good prices after a large devaluation<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper describes the empirical regularities of growth and business cycles that characterize market economies. Relatively little is know at this point about economic fluctuations in planned economies, partly because the system of national income accounting used by these countries produces information that is not easily comparable with data for market economies. Still, the lessons from market economies are likely to become increasingly relevant as planning economies rely more on market forces.'] [' This paper documents four basic facts about investment goods and investment prices. First, investment has a very significant nontradable component in the form of construction services. Second, distributions services (wholesaling, retailing, and transportation) are much less important for investment than for consumption. Third, the import content of investment is much larger than that of consumption. Finally, in the aftermath of three large devaluations, the rate of exchange rate pass-through is, perhaps not surprisingly, highest for imported equipment and lowest for construction services. (JEL: F41) Copyright (c) 2004 The European Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper studies the role played by the distribution sector in shaping the behavior of the real exchange rate during exchange-rate-based-stabilizations. We use data for the U.S. and Argentina to document the importance of distribution margins in retail prices and disaggregated price data to study price dynamics in the aftermath of Argentina's 1991 Convertibility plan. Distribution services require local labor and land so they drive a natural wedge between retail prices in different countries. We study in detail the impact of introducing a distribution sector in an otherwise standard model of exchange-rate-based-stabilizations. We show that this simple extension improves dramatically the ability of the model to rationalize observed real exchange rate dynamics.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["There are four programmes with notations that follow King et al, 1987, very closely. The programmes are GAUSS versions of MATLAB programmes by KPR. The linearized economy is solved for the optimal decision rules using the saddle point stability property of the competitive equilibrium. 1) DYN.E - setting up the basic system matrices and manipulating the system. 2) MDR.E - solving for the Markov-decision rules 3) IMP.E - computing impulse responses and transitions towards the steady state 4) SIMUL.E - simulating the model with stochastic shocks. Results are HP-filtered but moments of 'raw' data can be computed directly. STEP 1 AND 2 SHOULD ALWAYS BE COMPLETED BEFORE 3 OR 4 There are 4 example files in DYN.X1, MDR.X1, IMP.X1, AND SIMUL.X1. These illustrate the simplest model economy from KPR, 1988a<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['A search-theoretic model of equilibrium unemployment is constructed and shown to be consistent with the key regularities of the labor market and business cycle. The two distinguishing features of the model are: (i) the decision to accept or reject jobs is modeled explicitly, and (ii) markets are incomplete. The model is well suited to address a number of interesting policy questions. Two such applications are provided: the impact of unemployment insurance, and the welfare costs of business cycles.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Currency crises that coincide with banking crises tend to share four elements. First, governments provide guarantees to domestic and foreign bank creditors. Second, banks do not hedge their exchange rate risk. Third, there is a lending boom before the crises. Finally, when the currency/banking collapse occurs, interest rates rise and there is a persistent decline in output. This paper proposes an explanation for these regularities. We show that government guarantees lower interest rates and generate an economic boom. They also lead to a more fragile banking system; banks choose not to hedge exchange rate risk. When the fixed exchange rate is abandoned in favor of a crawling peg, banks go bankrupt, the domestic interest rate rises, real wages fall, and output declines.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Balanced growth models are commonly used in macroeconomics because they are consistent with the well-known Kaldor facts regarding economic growth. These models, however, are inconsistent with one of the most striking regularities of the growth process--the massive reallocation of labour from agriculture into manufacturing and services. This paper presents a simple model consistent with both the Kaldor facts and the dynamics of sectoral labour reallocation. Copyright 2001 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited'] ['This paper argues that a principal cause of the 1997 Asian currency crisis was large prospective deficits associated with implicit bailout guarantees to failing banking systems. The expectation that these future deficits would be at least partially financed by seigniorage revenues or an inflation tax on outstanding nominal debt led to a collapse of the fixed exchange rate regimes in Asia. We articulate this view using a simple model whose key feature is that a speculative attack is inevitable once the present value of future government deficits rises. We present empirical evidence in support of the key assumptions underlying our interpretation of the crisis.'] ["The empirical evidence on trade reforms suggests that these have a surprisingly small impact on the country's industrial configuration. This industrial structure inertia is difficult to rationalize in standard trade models. This paper develops a two-sector industry dynamics model in which industrial composition inertia arises naturally. The model is then used to study the consequences of different types of trade reforms (e.g. permanent, temporary, gradual, pre-announced) on investment, employment composition, and income distribution.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['This article reviews and interprets the recent currency crises in Korea and Thailand. The authors argue that a prime causes of the crises were large, unfunded government guarantees to railing financial sectors.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In this paper, we study some continuous-time cash-in-advanced models in which interest rate smoothing is optimal. We consider both deterministic and stochastic models.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper presents capital utilization corrected measures of technology shocks for aggregate and disaggregated (two digit Standard Industrial Classification code) industries. We correct for variations in capital utilization by employing industrial electrical use as a measure of capital services. In contrast, the standard measures of technology shocks used in the Real Business Cycle literature are based on economy wide data and assume that capital services are proportional to the stock of measured capital. To assess the impact of these differences, we contrast selected properties of the competing technology shock measures. We argue that the properties of technology shocks for the manufacturing sector are quite different than those used in the RBC literature. We also find that correcting for capital utilization has important implications for the properties of the Solow residual.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper discusses a dynamic model that is consistent with the main empirical regularities of economic fluctuations in open economies. While other models in this class have relied on non-separable preferences or finite horizons to generate a realistic consumption volatility, we show that there is a simple class of time separable preferences that is consistent with the cyclical volatilities of the components of the national income accounts identity as well as with the countercyclical character of the balance of trade.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" Recent estimates of the potential growth effects of tax reform vary wildly, ranging from zero to eight percentage points. Using an endogenous growth model, the authors assess which model features and parameter values are important for determining the quantitative impact of tax reform. The quantitative estimates in several recent papers are compared with each other and with some of the evidence from U.S. experience. The authors find that Robert Lucas's conclusion, that tax reform would have little or no impact on the U.S. growth rate, is theoretically robust and consistent with the evidence. Copyright 1995 by University of Chicago Press."] ['This paper describes the empirical regularities relating fiscal policy variables, the level of development and the rate of growth. We employ historical data, recent cross-section data, and newly constructed public investment series. Our main findings are: first, there is a strong association between the development level and the fiscal structure: poor countries rely heavily on international trade taxes, while income taxes are only important in developed economies; second, fiscal policy is influenced by the scale of the economy, measured by its population; and third, investment in transport and communication is consistently correlated with growth while the effects of taxation are difficult to isolate empirically.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Neoclassical transitional dynamics are a central element of standard macroeconomic theory. Quantitative experiments with the fixed-savings-rate models of the 1960s showed lengthy transitions, thus potentially rationalizing sustained differences in growth rates across countries. The authors investigate quantitative transitional dynamics in various neoclassical models with intertemporally optimizing households. Lengthy transitions occur only with very low intertemporal substitution. Generally, when one tries to explain sustained economic growth with transitional dynamics, there are extremely counterfactual implications. These result from the fact that implied marginal products are extraordinarily high in the early stages of development. Copyright 1993 by American Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['One of the central predictions of growth theory, old and new, is that income taxes have a negative effect on the pace of economic expansion. Little empirical work has been done on the topic because of the difficulty of measuring the relevant marginal tax rates. Easterly and Rebelo experiment with a method for computing average marginal income tax rates that combines information on statutory rates with the amount of tax revenue collected and with data on income distribution. Their method relies heavily on the assumption that the marginal tax schedule has a logistic form. Their method stands a better chance of measuring the relevant average marginal tax rate than the widely used alternative of assuming (implicitly or explicitly) that the income tax is proportional. The possibility of estimating marginal income tax rates suggests two lines of research: a study of the properties of models with nonlinear income taxes and a search for adequate empirical strategies for testing those models with cross-country data.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper investigates the sensitivity of Solow residual based measures of technology shocks to labor-hoarding behavior. Using a structural model of labor hoarding and the identifying restriction that innovations to technology shocks are orthogonal to innovations in government consumption, the authors estimate the fraction of the variability of the Solow residual that is due to technology shocks. Their results support the view that a significant proportion of movements in the Solow residual are artifa cts of labor-hoarding behavior. Specifically, the authors estimate that the variance of innovations to technology is roughly 50 percent less than that implied by standard real business cycle models. Copyright 1993 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The author surveys recent growth models that try to explain the diversity among countries in rates of economic growth. The author finds that these models can generate differences in growth rates only in the absence of international capital markets. Under these models, if there were free international capital mobility, the growth rate of consumption and GNP would quickly be equalized all over the world. The author describes a simple modification of standard preferences that eliminates this implausible equalization of growth and is consistent with the fact that the savings rate is lower in poor countries than in rich countries.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' The wide cross-country disparity in rates of economic growth is the most puzzling feature of the development process. This paper describes a class of models in which this heterogeneity in growth experiences can be the result of cross-country differences in government policy. These differences can also create incentives for labor migration from slow-growing to fast-growing countries. In the models considered, growth is endogenous, despite the absence of increasing returns, because there is a "core" of capital goods that can be produced without the direct or indirect contribution of factors that cannot be accumulated, such as land. Copyright 1991 by University of Chicago Press.'] [" Why do the countries of the world display considerable disparity in long-term growth rates? This paper examines the hypothesis that the answer lies in differences in national public policies that affect the incentives that individuals have to accumulate capital in both its physical and human forms. The authors' analysis of a calibrated two-sector endogenous growth model shows that the incentive effects of taxation can induce large differences in long-run growth rates. This influence of taxation on the rate of economic growth has important welfare implications: in basic endogenous growth models, the welfare cost of a 10 percent increase in the rate of income tax can be forty times larger than in the basic neoclassical model. Copyright 1990 by University of Chicago Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']