 ["This paper presents a model in which anonymous charitable donations are rationalized by two human tendencies drawn from the psychology literature. The first is people's disproportionate disposition to help those they agree with while the second is the dependence of peoples' self-esteem on the extent to which they perceive that others agree with them. Government spending crowds out the charity that ensues from these forces only modestly. Moreover, people's donations tend to rise when others donate. In some equilibria of the model, poor people give little because they expect donations to come mainly from richer individuals. In others, donations by poor individuals constitute a large fraction of donations and this raises the incentive for poor people to donate. The model provides interpretations for episodes in which the number of charities rises while total donations are stagnant."] ['This article surveys the theoretical literature in which people are modeled as taking other people\xe2\x80\x99s payoffs into account either because this affects their utility directly or because they wish to impress others with their social-mindedness. Key experimental results that bear on the relevance of these theories are discussed as well. Five types of models are considered. In the first, an individual\xe2\x80\x99s utility function is increasing in the payoffs of other people. The more standard version of these preferences supposes that only consumption leads to payoffs and has trouble explaining prosocial actions such as voting and charitable contributions by poor individuals. If one lets other variables determine happiness as well, this model can explain a much wider set of observations. The second type of model surveyed involves people trying to demonstrate to others that they have prosocial (or altruistic) preferences. In these models, altruistic acts need not have a direct effect on utility. The third class of models includes those of reciprocity in which people\xe2\x80\x99s altruism depends on whether others act kindly or unkindly toward them. In the fourth type of model, inequality has a profound effect on altruism, with individuals being spiteful toward people whose resources exceed their own. Finally, I discuss the fifth type of model, in which specifications of altruism might have to be modified to take into account how people behave when they are able to transfer lotteries to others.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['I suppose that consumers see a firm as fair if they cannot reject the hypothesis that the firm is somewhat benevolent towards them. Consumers that can reject this hypothesis become angry, which is costly to the firm. I show that firms that wish to avoid this anger will keep their prices rigid under some circumstances when prices would vary under more standard assumptions. The desire to appear benevolent can also lead firms to practice both third-degree and intertemporal price discrimination. Thus, the observation of temporary sales is consistent with my model of fair prices. The model can also explain why prices seem to be more responsive to changes in factor costs than to changes in demand that have the same effect on marginal cost, why increases in inflation seem to affect mostly the frequency of price adjustment without having sizeable effects on the size of price increases and why firms often announce their intent to increase prices in advance of actually doing so.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' A model is considered in which firms internalize the costly regret that consumers experience when prices change unexpectedly. This regret is greater when prices change by more, and this can explain why the actual size of price increases for firms with rigid prices is less sensitive to inflation than in models with fixed costs of changing prices. Regret costs of this form also lead to more variable price changes than fixed costs do. Last, the practice of announcing price increases in advance is easier to rationalize with regret concerns by consumers than with more standard approaches to price rigidity. Copyright \xc2\xa9 The editors of the\xe2\x80\x82"Scandinavian Journal of Economics"\xe2\x80\x822010 .'] ['This paper presents a goal-oriented model of political participation based on two psychological assumptions. The first is that people are more altruistic towards individuals that agree with them and the second is that people\xe2\x80\x99s well being rises when other people share their personal opinions. By conveying credible information on attitudes, votes give pleasure to individuals who agree with them and thereby confer vicarious utility on voters. Substantial equilibrium turnout emerges with nontrivial voting costs and modest altruism. The model can explain higher turnout in close elections as well as higher turnout by more informed and more educated individuals. For certain parameters, the model predicts that third party candidates will lose votes to more popular candidates, a phenomenon often called strategic voting. For other parameters, the model predicts \xe2\x80\x98vote-stealing\xe2\x80\x99 where the addition of a third candidate robs a major candidate of electoral support.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['I suppose that people react with anger when others show themselves not to be minimally altruistic. With heterogeneous agents, this can account for the experimental results of ultimatum and dictator games. Moreover, it can account for the surprisingly large fraction of individuals who offer an even split with parameter values that are more plausible than those that are required to explain outcomes in these experiments with the models of Levine [Levine, D.K., 1998. Modeling altruism and spitefulness in experiments. Review of Economic Dynamics 1, 593-622], Fehr and Schmidt [Fehr, E., Schmidt, K.M., 1999. A theory of fairness, competition and cooperation. Quarterly Journal of Economics 114, 817-868], Dickinson [Dickinson, D.L., 2000. Ultimatum decision making: a test of reciprocal kindness. Theory and Decision 48, 151-177] and Bolton and Ockenfels [Bolton, G.E., Ockenfels, A., 2000. ERC: a theory of equity, reciprocity, and competition. American Economic Review 90, 166-193].'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['A monopsony model with a symmetric equilibrium is developed where posting higher wages reduces employee departures. This monopsony implies that wage changes have small effects on profits so that employer altruism affects wages as well. Even selfish firms act altruistically if workers punish firms that fail to do so. If the marginal utility of income falls sharply with income, the model can explain modest responses of wages to shifts in labor demand. If there are fluctuations in the altruism required by workers, the low correlation of wages and employment and the sizes of the cyclical fluctuations in these two series can be rationalized.'] [' This note provides an example where the New Keynesian Phillips Curve leads inflation to be substantially more persistent than the output gap. Copyright 2007 The Ohio State University.'] ['This paper presents a complete general equilibrium model with flexible wages where the degree to which wages and productivity change when cyclical employment changes is roughly consistent with postwar U.S. data. Firms with market power are assumed to bargain simultaneously with many employees, each of whom finds himself matched with a firm only after a process of search. When employment increases as a result of reductions in market power, the marginal product of labor falls. This fall tempers the bargaining power of workers and thus dampens the increase in their real wages. The procyclical movement of wages is dampened further if the posting of vacancies is subject to increasing returns.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In public discussions of policy, evidence that import-competing sectors earn low or falling incomes is often used to argue for protection. This paper rationalizes the apparent effectiveness of this argument in both direct and indirect democracies. In direct democracies, a small degree of voter altruism leads to protection in the specific factors model when the import-competing sector earns little. Similarly, voter altruism creates an incentive in representative democracies for self-interested parties to present evidence to legislators on the income of import-competing factors. This leads to a theory in which campaign contributions buy access to legislators rather than buy votes.'] ["This paper studies a model of random technical progress where technology diffuses at realistically slow rates. It fits smooth trends to the sum of GDP series generated by this model and series representing transitory, or cyclical, fluctuations. Detrended GDP is then largely unrelated to technical progress. The detrending method proposed by Rotemberg (1999) reconstructs cyclical variations somewhat more accurately than the HP filter. With sufficiently slow diffusion it is also more accurate than a method based on VARs fitted to hours and GDP growth. Consistent with the model's predictions, permanent shocks initially depress both hours and output in these VARs."] ['This article develops a model in which quit rates, and thus the income distribution, depend on employee perceptions of the accuracy of employer assessments of individual productivity because these latter assessments affect wages. When employees believe that these assessments are accurate, income inequality tends to be high. The model can account for the negative correlation across some countries of inequality and the extent to which inequality is deemed to be excessive. It also fits the contrast in U.S. and French experiences concerning the tenure of highly educated workers with high wages relative to the tenure of lower-paid workers.'] ['We consider a model with several regions whose technological ability and factor endowments are identical and in which transport costs between regions are non-negligible. Nonetheless, certain goods are sometimes produced by multiple firms all of which are located in the same region. These goods are then exported from the regions in which their production is agglomerated. Regional agglomeration of production and trade stem from two forces. First, competition between firms for the services of trained workers is necessary for the workers to recoup the cost of acquiring industry-specific human capital. Second, the technology of production is more efficient when plants are larger than a minimum efficient scale and local demand is insufficient to support several firms of that scale. We also study the policy implications of our model.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Incentives for profitable innovation may be enhanced by employing a "visionary" CEO whose "vision" biases him in favor of certain projects. CEO vision changes which projects get implemented and thus affects the incentives of employees who can be compensated for their innovative ideas only when they become embodied in implemented projects. Profits may be enhanced further by letting objective managers decide which projects to investigate even though their decisions can depart from the firm\'s "strategy" by differing from those the CEO would have made.'] [" I consider a firm's choice between having people who carry out complementary tasks report to the same manager and having them report to separate, function-based managers. Even supposing that the former enhances coordination, the latter may be preferred because it improves the firm's control over employees. I show that, because switching from a function-based hierarchy to a process-based hierarchy reduces the firm's direct control, it raises the attractiveness of making the employee pay more sensitive to performance. Also, this switch tends to raise the profitability of fostering altruism between employees. I extend the analysis so that it deals with the relative benefits of IT- and M-form organizations. I show that the M form becomes more profitable as the firm gets large. Copyright (c) 1999 Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The authors study the movements in output, consumption, and hours that are forecastable from a vector autoregression and analyze how they differ from those predicted by standard real-business-cycle models. They show that actual forecastable movements in output have a variance about one hundred times larger than those predicted by the model. The authors also find that forecastable changes in the three series are strongly positively correlated with each other. On the other hand, for parameters whose implications are plausible in other respects, the model implies that output, consumption, and hours should not all be expected to move in the same direction. Copyright 1996 by American Economic Association.'] [' The authors show that modifying the standard neoclassical growth model by assuming that competition is imperfect makes it easier to explain the size of the declines in output and real wages that follow increases in the price of oil. Plausibly parameterized models of this type are able to mimic the response of output and real wages in the United States. The responses are particularly consistent with a model of implicit collusion where markups depend positively on the ratio of the expected present value of future profits to the current level of output. Copyright 1996 by Ohio State University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['I show that a simple sticky price model based on Rotemberg (1982) is consistent with a variety of facts concerning the correlation of prices, hours and output. In particular, I show that it is consistent with a negative correlation between the detrended levels of output and prices when the Beveridge-Nelson method is used to detrend both the price and output data. Such a correlation, i.e., a negative correlation between the predictable movements in output and the predictable movements in prices is present (and very strong) in U.S. data. Consistent with the model, this correlation is stronger than correlations between prices and hours of work. I also study the size of the predictable price movements that are associated with predictable output movements as well as the degree to which there are predictable movements in monetary aggregates associated with predictable movements in output. These facts are used to shed light on the degree to which the Federal Reserve has pursued a policy designed to stabilize expected inflation.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper derives a new utility-based monetary aggregate, the currency-equivalent aggregate. It equals the stock of currency that would be required for households to obtain the liquidity services that they get from their entire collection of monetary assets. This aggregate is derived from preferences assuming that these satisfy a separability assumption in addition to satisfying the requirements for Divisia aggregation. The resulting aggregate remains valid when asset characteristics change and equals the sum of individuals' currency-equivalent holdings. It also predicts output movements better than simple-sum aggregates such as M1 and M2."] ['This paper discusses the consequences of introducing imperfectly competitive product markets in an otherwise standard neoclassical growth model. We pay particular attention to the consequences of imperfect competition for the explanation of fluctuations in aggregate economic activity. Market structures considered include monopolistic competition, the "customer market" model of Phelps and Winter, and the implicit collusion model of Rotemberg and Saloner. Empirical evidence relevant to the numerical calibration of imperfectly competitive models is reviewed. The paper then analyzes the effects of imperfect competition upon the economy\'s response to several kinds of real shocks, including technology shocks, shocks to the level of government purchases, and shocks that change individual producers\' degree of market power. It also discusses the role of imperfect competition in allowing for fluctuations due solely to self-fulfilling expectations.'] [" We study why production and sales departments tend to disagree, with the former wanting long production runs and the latter wanting a broad product line. We then analyze why these disagreements lead to overt conflict in which functional areas fight with each other by presenting arguments that damage each other's position. We show how the firm benefits from the information generated by this conflict. In spite of these benefits, the equilibrium conflict can exceed its profit-maximizing level. Finally, we show that concentrating innovative talent in only one department can help reduce interfunctional conflict."] ['Two main aspects of the business cycle have been recently considered as important lines of research: business formation and cyclical fluctuations of markups. In an explicitly imperfect competition framework, one needs to understand how entry and exit are related to markup fluctuations, and how this may account for the effect of aggregate demand on economic activity. The paper has two different goals. The first one is to document on French data the pro-cyclicality of business formation and the counter-cyclicality of markups. The second one is to build an intertemporal stochastic general equilibrium model which gives a common explanation to these two phenomena. A first (quite simple) model is proposed, with monopolistic competition between industries and Cournot competition with free entry inside each industry. A reduced-form model of more satisfactory intertemporal behavior of firms in their entry/exit and markups decisions is then proposed, which will motivate further work to give game-theoretic micro-foundations to these intertemporal behaviors.'] [" This paper seeks to understand what motivates workers to be altruistic toward one another and studies whether firms benefit from encouraging these 'human relations' in the workplace. The paper first proposes that feelings of altruism can be individually rational in certain settings in which the variables controlled by the workers are strategically linked. The paper then studies what this implies for equilibrium altruism in two situations. The first has workers who are paid as a function of joint output. The second is the relationship between subordinates and their supervisors. Copyright 1994 by University of Chicago Press."] [" Firms often concentrate on a narrow range of activities and claim to forgo other, apparently profitable, opportunities. This pursuit of narrow strategies is applauded by some academics who study strategic management. The authors present two related theoretical models in which firms do indeed benefit from pursuing such narrow strategies. In these models, a narrow strategy is beneficial because it enables the firm to motivate its employees to search for ways of increasing the profitability of its core activities. These benefits arise in the authors' model because an incompleteness of contracts precludes offering similar incentives when the firm is involved in many activities. Copyright 1994 by American Economic Association."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["We study the relationship between a firm's environment and its optimal leadership style. We use a model in which contracts between the firm and managers are incomplete so that providing incentives to subordinates is not straightforward. Leadership style, whether based on organizational culture or on the personality of the leader, then affects the incentive contracts that can be offered to subordinates. We show that leaders who empathize with their employees adopt a participatory style and that shareholders gain from appointing such leaders when the firm has the potential for exploiting numerous innovative ideas. By contrast, when the environment is poor in new ideas, shareholders benefit from hiring a more selfish (i.e., more profit maximizing) leader whose style is more autocratic."] [' The authors test whether comovements of individual stock prices can be justified by economic fundamentals. This is a test of the present value model of security valuation with the constraint that changes in discount rates depend only on changes in macroeconomic variables. Then, stock prices of companies in unrelated lines of business should move together only in response to changes in current or expected future macroeconomic conditions. Using a latent variable model to capture unobserved expectations, the authors find excess comovement of returns. They show that this excess comovement can be explained in part by company size and degree of institutional ownership, suggesting market segmentation. Copyright 1993, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [" I study how profit-maximizing organizations make decisions. Members of organizations tend to have incompatible preferences over decisions, but willingness to pay for decisions plays a very limited role in actual decision making. A sizable empirical literature documents that people who provide critical services, are hard to replace, or deal effectively with external shocks, are powerful; they have disproportionate influence over decisions. This can be profit maximizing because the right to shape the firm through its decisions renders the firm more attractive as an employer. Thus, the relative costliness of employees' departures should affect their relative power. Copyright 1993 by MIT Press."] [" The authors construct a dynamic general equilibrium model in which the typical industry colludes by threatening to punish deviations from an implicitly agreed-on pricing path. They use methods similar to those of F. Kydland and E. Prescott (1982) to calibrate linearized versions of both their model and an analogous perfectly concerning model. The authors then compute the two models' predictions concerning the economy's responses to a change in military spending. The responses predicted by the oligopolistic model are closer to the empirical responses estimated with postwar U.S. data than the corresponding predictions of the competitive model. Copyright 1992 by University of Chicago Press."] [' The author considers a model in which the threat of customer departures induces sellers to supply high-quality goods. Permanent attachment of buyer and seller such that transactions take place inside a firm raises the social cost of delivering high quality. Yet, such costly integration is often profitable, because prices exceed marginal cost at equilibria where market transactions provide high quality. This theory can rationalize the empirical finding that middle managers are averse to transactions between profit centers. Copyright 1991 by American Economic Association.'] ["I develop two models in which debt repurchases by highly indebted sovereign nations are advantageous for all parties. The models are based on the idea that when sovereign debts are large, bargaining costs are large. Creditors spend more resources convincing the debtor that they are tough when they have more at stake. Also, the sanctions which are sometimes triggered when bargaining fails to produce an agreement are larger when debts are larger. For both these reasons buybacks, which reduce the face value of the outstanding debt, can be beneficial. The resulting equilibria are constrained Pareto Optima. But, donors who subsidize buybacks increase overall welfare more than donors who make direct gifts. I also argue that Bulow and Rogoff (1988)'s empirical evidence on buybacks is consistent with my models.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [" Robert E. Hall has shown that with perfect competition and price flexibility, total factor productivity, measured using labor's share whether in revenues or in costs, will be acyclical regardless of the level of labor hoarding. The authors show that if firms producing a homogeneous good under constant returns must pick their prices before demand is known, both measures of productivity become procyclical. The model implies the productivity should be more procyclical the more important is labor hoarding. Empirically, productivity is more procyclical in industries and in nations where labor hoarding appears more important. Copyright 1990, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] [' This paper tests and confirms the existence of a puzzling phenomenon--the prices of largely unrelated raw commodities have a persistent tendency to move together. The authors show that this comovement of prices is well in excess of anything that can be explained by the common effects of past, current, or expected future values of macroeconomic variables such as inflation, industrial production, interest rates, and exchange rates. These results are a rejection of the standard competitive model of commodity price formation with storage. Copyright 1990 by Royal Economic Society.'] [' The authors study the pattern of pricing in which price changes are first announced by one firm and then matched by its rivals. In their model, this price leadership facilitates collusion under asymmetric information. In equilibrium, the leader earns higher profits than the follower. Nonetheless, if information is sufficiently asymmetric, the less informed firm prefers to follow the better-informed firm, so the leader can emerge endogenously. The authors show that the follower can benefit from price rigidity so that prices may be changed infrequently. They also show that overall welfare may be lower under collusive price leadership than under overt collusion. Copyright 1990 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] [" We investigate product-market competition when managers maximize shareholders value rather than their expected discounted value of profits. If shareholders are imperfectly informed about future profitability, shareholder-value maximization can lead to either more or less aggressive product-market strategies. Lower rivals' profits lead investors to believe that the firm's costs are low relative to those of its rivals and that the industry's prospects are poor. If the former (latter) inference dominates, each firm tries to lower (raise) its rivals' profits to increase its own stock price. We also consider implications for corporate financial structure. Article published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Financial Studies in its journal, The Review of Financial Studies."] [' This paper examines the empirical validity of the predictions that if governments minimize the deadweight loss from raising revenue through inflation and tax finance, there should be a positive contemporaneous association between inflation and the level of tax burdens. The authors examine the empirical validity of this prediction using data from Great Britain, France, Germany, Japan, and the United States. Inflation and tax rates are as likely to be negatively as positively correlated, so the results cast doubt on the empirical relevance of simple models in which governments with time-invariant tastes choose monetary policy to equate the marginal deadweight burdens of inflation and taxes. Copyright 1990 by Ohio State University Press.'] ['This paper estimates simultaneously dynamic equations for the Deutsche Mark/Dollar exchange rate and the German wholesale price index, which emerge from a model in which German prices are sticky. This stickiness is due to price adjustment costs which take the form posited by Rotemberg(1982).The main results of the empirical analysis are two: First, the version of the model where prices are perfectly flexible is rejected. Second, real exchange rate variability is mostly accounted for by nominal exchange rate variability. We find substantial overshooting of the exchange rate to monetary innovations like those which appear to be typical in Germany.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper presents a model in which inventories are used by a duopoly to deter deviations from an implicitly collusive arrangement. Higher inventories allow firms to punish cheaters more strongly and can thus help to maintain collusion. The authors show that when demand is high, the incentive to deviate increases so that increases in inventories may be optimal for the duopoly. This rationalizes the observed positive correlation between inventories and sales. In their empirical section, the authors show that, as their model predicts, this correlation is more important in concentrated industries. They also provide several examples where inventories have been a factor in cartel behavior. Copyright 1989, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['The authors consider an infinite-horizon setting in which domestic and foreign firms achieve collusive outcomes by threatening to punish deviators. They show that, in this setting, the standard results of Jagdish Bhagwhati (1965) can be reversed in that quotas promote competition while tariffs do not.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Under Section 201 of the 1974 Trade Act, a domestic industry can obtain temporary protection against imports by demonstrating before the International Trade Commission that it has been injured, and that imports have been the"substantial cause" of injury --i.e.,"a cause which is important and not less than any other cause." To date, the ITC lacks a coherent framework for selecting a menu of other factors which might be considered as causes of injury, and for weighing the effects of these other factors against those of imports.This paper sets forth a straightforward economic and statistical framework for use in Section 201 cases. This framework is based on the fact that if the domestic industry is competitive, injury can arise from one or more of three broad sources: adverse shifts in market demand, adverse shifts in domestic supply, or increased imports. We show how these sources of injury can be distinguished in theory, and statistically evaluated in practice. As an illustrative example, we apply the framework to the case of the copper industry, which petitioned the ITC for relief in 1984. Although that industry has indeed suffered injury, we show that the "substantial cause" was not imports, but instead increasing costs and decreasing demand.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper seeks to explain why monopolies keep their nominal prices constant for longer periods than do tight oligopolies. The authors show that cost changes create a larger incentive for duopolists to change their prices, while demand changes tend to have a greater effect on a monopolist. When both costs and demand are affected by small changes in the overall price level, the cost effect dominates. In the presence of a small fixed cost of changing prices, therefore, duopolists change their prices in response to smaller perturbations in underlying conditions. Copyright 1987 by American Economic Association.'] [' In classical macroeconomic models with flexible wages and prices, whether a tax is levied on producers or consumers does not affect itsultimate incidence. If wages or prices are rigid in the short run, however, then shifting a tax from one side of the market to the othermay have real effects. Tax changes, therefore, provide potential testsfor the presence of nominal rigidities. This paper examines the priceand output effects of revenue-neutral shifts between direct and indirect taxation. The results provide evidence against the view thatwages and prices are completely flexible in the short run. Copyright 1986 by American Economic Association.'] [' This paper studies implicitly colluding oligopolists facing fluctuatingdemand. The credible threat of future punishments provides the discipline that facilitates collusion. However, the authors find that the temptation to unilaterally deviate from the collusive outcome is often greater when demand is high. To moderate this temptation, the optimizing oligopoly reduces its profitability at such times, resultingin lower prices. The behavior of the railroads in the 1880s, the automobile industry in the 1950s, the cyclical behavior of cement prices, and of price-cost margins are consistent with this theory. Thereduction of price by the oligopolistic sectors may have macro consequences. Copyright 1986 by American Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper examines the connection between money and the terms of trade in the context of a simple monetary equilibrium model with flexible prices. Money is held for transactions purposes. Because carrying out financial transactions is costly, households visit their financial intermediaries only occasionally. An important feature of the model is that different households visit the financial intermediaries at different times. This is sufficient to ensure that even though the model features perfect foresight and competitive markets, monetary policies affect output under both fixed and flexible exchange rates. Moreover, in the latter regime expansionary monetary policies tend to worsen the terms of trade while this is not the case under fixed exchange rates.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Modern neoclassical theories of the business cycle posit that aggregate fluctuations in consumption and employment are the consequence of dynamic optimizing behavior by economic agents who face no quantity constraint. In this paper, we estimate an explicit model :f this type. In particular, we assume that the observed fluctuations correspond to the decisions of an optimizing representative individual. This individual has a stable utility function which is additively separable over time but not necessarily additively separable in consumption and leisure. We estimate three first order conditions which represent three margins on which the individual is optimizing. He can trade off present consumption for future consumption, present leisure for future leisure and present consumption for present leisure. Our results show that the aggregate U.S. data are extremely reluctant to be characterized by a model of this type. Not only are the overidentifying restrictions statistically rejected but, in addition, the estimated utility function is often not concave. Even when it is concave the estimates imply that either consumption or leisure is an inferior good.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper presents the competitive equilibrium of an economy in which people hold money for transactions purposes. It studies both the steady states which result from different rates of monetary expansion and the effects of such non-steady state events as an open market operation. Even though the model features no uncertainty and perfect foresight, open market operations affect aggregate output. In particular, a simultaneous increase in money and governmental holdings of capital temporarily raises aggregate capital and output while it lowers the real rate of interest on capital.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper presents a dynamic model of the industrial demands for structures, equipment, and blue- and white-collar labor. Our approach is consistent with producers holding rational expectations and optimizing dynamically in the presence of adjustment costs, yet it permits generality of functional form regarding the technology. We represent the technology by atranslog input requirement function that specifies the amount of blue-collar labor (a flexible factor) the firm must hire to produce a level of output given its quantities of three quasi-fixed factors that are subject to adjustment costs: non-production (white-collar) workers, equipment, and structures.A complete description of the production structure is obtained by simultaneously estimating the input requirement function and three stochastic Euler equations.We apply an instrumental variable technique to estimate these equations using aggregate data for U.S. manufacturing. We find that as a fraction of total expenditures, adjustment costs are small in total hut large on the margin,and that they differ considerably across quasi-fixed factors. We also present short- and long-run elasticities of factor demands.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Two of the puzzling macroeconomic phenomena of the 1970s have been the persistent stagnation in Europe, and the disagreement between the U.S. and Europe on the feasibility of recovery by demand expansion. This paper develops the hypothesis that the source of both the stagnation and the policy differences is money-wage stickiness in the U.S. and real-wage stickiness in Europe and Japan. A real wage which is sticky above its equilibrium level in Europe and Japan would account for stagnation and infeasibility of recovery by demand expansion. The theoretical models are developed in both the one-commodity and two-commodity-bundle cases. The empirical results confirm that in the U.S. the nominal wage adjusts slowly toward equilibrium, while in Germany, Italy, Japan, and the U.K. the real wage adjusts slowly.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)']