 [' type="main"&gt;  We examine large public interventions in the financial sector, such as bank nationalizations and search for \xe2\x80\x9cfinancial protectionism,\xe2\x80\x9d a decrease in the quantity and/or an increase in the price of loans that banks from one country make to borrowers resident in another. We use a bank-level panel data set spanning all U.K.-resident banks between 1997Q3 and 2010Q1. After nationalization, foreign banks reduced their fraction of British loans by about 11% and increased their effective interest rates by about 70 basis points. In contrast, nationalized British banks did not significantly change either their loan mix or effective interest rates.'] ['The consequences of regional trade agreements (RTAs) on countries\xd7\xb3 welfare are disputed. In this paper, we assess these effects using stock returns from a recent data set that spans over 200 RTA announcements, 80 economies, and 20 years. We measure the effects of news concerning RTAs on the returns of national stock markets, after adjusting these returns for international stock market movements. We then link these abnormal returns to features of the RTA members and the agreements themselves. We find strong evidence of the natural trading partner hypothesis; stock markets rise more when RTAs are signed between countries that already engage in high volumes of trade. Stock markets also rise more when poorer countries sign RTAs, and when RTAs are signed with smaller partners. We also find no evidence that capital markets expect significant trade diversion effects.'] ['Governments have rarely imposed or removed capital controls in response to short-term fluctuations in output, the terms of trade, or financial-stability considerations. We show empirically that controls on the international flow of financial capital are highly durable, often remaining in place for decades; their duration is striking compared with related phenomena such as exchange rate regimes. This represents a challenge to any proposed use of capital controls as an instrument of macroeconomic and macro-prudential management, since we have little experience in using capital controls at high- or medium frequencies. Any new policy initiative mandating frequent shifts in controls will be based on theory rather than data-driven experience.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In contrast to earlier recessions, the monetary regimes of many small economies have not changed in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. This is due in part to the fact that many small economies continue to use hard exchange rate fixes, a reasonably durable regime. However, most of the new stability is due to countries that float with an inflation target. Though a few have left to join the Eurozone, no country has yet abandoned an inflation targeting regime under duress. Inflation targeting now represents a serious alternative to a hard exchange rate fix for small economies seeking monetary stability. Are there important differences between the economic outcomes of the two stable regimes? I examine a panel of annual data from more than 170 countries from 2007 through 2012 and find that the macroeconomic and financial consequences of regime-choice are surprisingly small. Consistent with the literature, business cycles, capital flows, and other phenomena for hard fixers have been similar to those for inflation targeters during the Global Financial Crisis and its aftermath.'] [' We look at the exchange rate policy choices and outcomes for small rich economies. Small rich economies face significant policy challenges due to proportionately greater economic volatility than larger economies. These economies usually choose some form of fixed exchange rate regime, particularly in the very small economies where the per capita cost of independent monetary policy is relatively high. When such countries do choose a free or managed floating regime, they appear to derive no benefit from those regimes; their exchange rate volatility seems to rise without any significant change in fundamental economic volatility. Thus, for these countries, floating exchange rates seem to create problems for policy makers without solving any.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['While the global financial crisis was centered in the United States, it led to a surprising appreciation in the dollar, suggesting global dollar illiquidity. In response, the Federal Reserve partnered with other central banks to inject dollars into the international financial system. Empirical studies of the success of these efforts have yielded mixed results, in part because their timing is likely to be endogenous. In this paper, we examine the cross-sectional impact of these interventions. Theory consistent with dollar appreciation in the crisis suggests that their impact should be greater for countries that have greater exposure to the United States through trade and financial channels, less transparent holdings of dollar assets, and greater illiquidity difficulties. We examine these predictions for observed cross-sectional changes in CDS spreads, using a new proxy for innovations in perceived changes in sovereign risk based upon Google-search data. We find robust evidence that auctions of dollar assets by foreign central banks disproportionately benefited countries that were more exposed to the United States through either trade linkages or asset exposure. We obtain weaker results for differences in asset transparency or illiquidity. However, several of the important announcements concerning the international swap programs disproportionately benefited countries exhibiting greater asset opaqueness.'] ["During the 2007\xe2\x80\x9309 financial crisis, the banking sector received an extraordinary level of public support. In this empirical paper, we examine the determinants of a number of public sector interventions: government funding or central bank liquidity insurance schemes, public capital injections, and nationalizations. We use bank-level data spanning all British and foreign banks operating within the United Kingdom. We use multinomial logit regression techniques and find that a bank's size, relative to the size of the entire banking system, typically has a large positive and non-linear effect on the probability of public sector intervention for a bank. We also use instrumental variable techniques to show that British interventions helped; there is fragile evidence that the wholesale (non-core) funding of an affected institution increased significantly following capital injection or nationalization."] ["We derive an international centralized and decentralized market model, in the spirit of Lagos and Wright (2005), where agents can experience asset-specific illiquidity. We apply the analysis to the question of dollar illiquidity during the global financial crisis and the response through international swap arrangements conducted by the Federal Reserve during that crisis. Our results show that it is possible for a deterioration in US asset values, analogous to the meltdown experienced during the global financial crisis in US real estate and asset-backed securities, to actually result in an appreciation in the dollar exchange rate, as was observed at the crisis apex. The intuition behind this counterintuitive result is that the deterioration in other dollar asset values reduces the availability of dollars for transactions purposes. Given that dollars are required for some transactions, this raises the demand for other dollar assets, such as cash, that can substitute in providing these liquidity services. Our model predicts that the benefits of swap arrangements, such as those pursued by the Federal Reserve swap arrangements are likely to be dependent on a number of agent characteristics. The benefits are shown to be increasing in the probability of needing to transact in dollars, the opaqueness of an agent's asset portfolio, and its illiquidity."] ['The Doha multilateral round of trade negotiations sponsored by the WTO has been dragging on for over a decade, with no end in sight. In this short paper we assess empirically what determines the duration of trade negotiations, focusing on the span between the start of trade talks and their conclusion. We use data from 88 regional trade agreements between 1988 and 2009, and a semi-parametric Cox proportional hazards model. Four factors are robust determinants of the length of RTA negotiations. Negotiations are more protracted when there are more countries at the negotiation table, and when the countries are not from the same region. Negotiations between more open and richer countries also finish more quickly.'] ['Economists are skeptical about the economic benefits of hosting "mega-events" such as the Olympic Games or the World Cup, since such activities have considerable cost and seem to yield few tangible benefits. These doubts are rarely shared by policy-makers and the population, who are typically quite enthusiastic about such spectacles. In this paper, we reconcile these positions by examining the economic impact of hosting mega-events like the Olympics; we focus on trade. Using a variety of trade models, we show that hosting a mega-event like the Olympics has a positive impact on national exports. This effect is statistically robust, permanent, and large; trade is around 30% higher for countries that have hosted the Olympics. Interestingly however, we also find that unsuccessful bids to host the Olympics have a similar positive impact on exports. We conclude that the Olympic effect on trade is attributable to the signal a country sends when bidding to host the games, rather than the act of actually holding a mega-event. We develop a political economy model that formalizes this idea, and derives the conditions under which a signal like this is used by countries wishing to liberalize.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['We update (Rose and Spiegel, forthcoming) and (Rose and Spiegel, 2010) and search for simple quantitative models of macroeconomic and financial indicators of the "Great Recession" of 2008-09. We use a cross-country approach and examine a number of potential causes that have been found to be successful indicators of crisis intensity by other scholars. We check a number of different indicators of crisis intensity, and a variety of different country samples. While countries with higher income and looser credit market regulation seemed to suffer worse crises, we find few clear reliable indicators in the pre-crisis data of the incidence of the Great Recession. Countries with current account surpluses seemed better insulated from slowdowns.'] ["This paper provides a selective survey of the incidence, causes, and consequences of a country's choice of its exchange rate regime. I begin with a critical review of Michael Klein and Jay C. Shambaugh's (2010) book Exchange Rate Regimes in the Modern Era, and then proceed to provide an alternative overview of what the economics profession knows and needs to know about exchange rate regimes. While a fixed exchange rate with capital mobility is a well-defined monetary regime, floating is not; thus, it is unclear whether it is theoretically sensible to compare countries across exchange rate regimes. This comparison is quite difficult to make empirically. It is often hard to figure out what the exchange rate regime of a country is in practice, since there are multiple conflicting regime classifications. More importantly, similar countries choose radically different exchange rate regimes without substantive consequences for macroeconomic outcomes like output growth and inflation. That is, the profession knows surprisingly little about either the causes or consequences of national choices of exchange rate regimes. But since the consequences of these choices are small, understanding their causes is of only academic interest. (JEL E52, F33)"] [" We model the causes of the 2008 financial crisis together with its manifestations, using a cross-country multiple indicator multiple cause model. We consider both national and, critically, international linkages between countries and potential crisis 'epicentres', including the United States. A country holding an epicentre's securities is exposed through a financial channel, while a country that exports to that epicentre is exposed through a real channel. We are unable to find strong evidence that international linkages can be associated with crisis incidence. In particular, exposure to the United States in either form has little impact. If anything, it appears to help. Copyright 2010 The Authors. Journal compilation 2010 Blackwell Publishing Asia Pty Ltd"] ['Inflation targeting seems to have a small but positive effect on the synchronization of business cycles; countries that target inflation seem to have cycles that move slightly more closely with foreign cycles. Thus the advent of inflation targeting does not explain the decoupling of global business cycles, for two reasons. Indeed business cycles have not in fact become less synchronized across countries.'] ['We use a quinquennial data set covering 87 countries between 1975 and 2005 to investigate empirically the relationship between fertility and the real effective exchange rate. Theoretically, a country experiencing a decline in its fertility rate can be expected to experience a real depreciation. We test and confirm this hypothesis, controlling for a number of other potential determinants. We find a statistically significant and robust link between fertility and the exchange rate. Our point-estimate is that a decline in the fertility rate of one child per woman is associated with a depreciation of approximately 15% in the real effective exchange rate.'] ['The enormity of the current financial collapse raises the question whether the crisis could have been predicted. This is the second of two Economic Letters on the topic. This Letter examines research suggesting that early warning models would not have accurately predicted the relative severity of the current crisis across countries, casting doubt on the ability of such models to forecast similar crises in the future.'] ['This paper shows that proximity to major international financial centers seems to reduce business cycle volatility. In particular, we show that countries that are farther from major locations of international financial activity systematically experience more volatile growth rates in both output and consumption, even after accounting for political institutions, trade, and other controls. Our results are relatively robust in the sense that more financially remote countries are more volatile, though the results are not always statistically significant. The comparative strength of this finding is in contrast to the more ambiguous evidence found in the literature.'] [' We examine the role of noneconomic partnerships in promoting international economic exchange. Since far-sighted countries are more willing to join costly international partnerships such as environmental treaties, environmental engagement tends to encourage international lending. Countries with such noneconomic partnerships also find it easier to engage in economic exchanges since they face the possibility that debt default might also spill over to hinder their noneconomic relationships. We present a theoretical model of these ideas and then verify their empirical importance using a bilateral cross-section of data on international cross-holdings of assets and environmental treaties. Our results support the notion that international environmental cooperation facilitates economic exchange. Copyright (c) 2009 The Ohio State University.'] ['We compare the duration and performance of different monetary regimes, especially the contrast between countries those that fix exchange rates and those that target inflation. Inflation targeting is a more durable policy; no country has yet been forced to abandon an inflation target, while many have abandoned fixed exchange rates. Indeed, even though inflation targeting began only in 1990, the duration of inflation targeting regimes is at least as long as, or longer than all alternative monetary regimes for comparable countries. Regime duration also matters in monetary policy; older regimes are typically more successful than younger ones in achieving low inflation.'] ['A stable international monetary system has emerged since the early 1990s. A large number of industrial and a growing number of developing countries now have domestic inflation targets administered by independent and transparent central banks. These countries place few restrictions on capital mobility and allow their exchange rates to float. The domestic focus of monetary policy in these countries does not have any obvious international cost. Inflation targeters have lower exchange rate volatility and less frequent "sudden stops" of capital flows than similar countries that do not target inflation. Inflation targeting countries also do not have current accounts or international reserves that look different from other countries. This system was not planned and does not rely on international coordination. There is no role for a center country, the IMF, or gold. It is durable; in contrast to other monetary regimes, no country has been forced to abandon an inflation-targeting regime. Succinctly, it is the diametric opposite of the post-war system; Bretton Woods, reversed.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' We study empirically the macroeconomic effects of an explicit "de jure" quantitative goal for monetary policy. Quantitative goals take three forms: exchange rates, money growth rates, and inflation targets. We analyze the effects on inflation of both having a quantitative target and hitting a declared target. Our empirical work uses an annual data set covering 42 countries between 1960 and 2000, and takes account of other determinants of inflation (such as fiscal policy, the business cycle, and openness to international trade) and the endogeneity of the monetary policy regime. We find that both having and hitting quantitative targets for monetary policy is systematically and robustly associated with lower inflation. The exact form of the monetary target matters somewhat (especially for the sustainability of the monetary regime) but is less important than having some quantitative target. Successfully achieving a quantitative monetary goal is also associated with less volatile output. Copyright 2007 The Ohio State University.'] [' As communication costs fall, foreign embassies and consulates have lost much of their role in decision-making and information-gathering. Accordingly, foreign services are increasingly marketing themselves as agents of export promotion. I investigate whether exports are in fact systematically associated with diplomatic representation abroad. I use a recent cross-section of data covering 22 large exporters and 200 import destinations. Bilateral exports rise by approximately six to ten per cent for each additional consulate abroad, controlling for a host of other features including reverse causality. The effect varies by exporter, and is non-linear; consulates have smaller effects than the creation of an embassy. Copyright 2007 Blackwell Publishers Ltd (a Blackwell Publishing Company).'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This article analyses the causes and consequences of offshore financial centres (OFCs). While OFCs are likely to encourage bad behaviour in source countries, they may also have unintended positive consequences, such as providing competition for the domestic banking sector. We derive and simulate a model of a home country monopoly bank facing a representative competitive OFC which offers tax advantages attained by moving assets offshore at a cost that is increasing in distance to the OFC. Our model predicts that proximity to an OFC is likely to be pro-competitive. We test and confirm the predictions empirically. OFC proximity is associated with a more competitive domestic banking system and greater overall financial depth. Copyright 2007 The Author(s). Journal compilation Royal Economic Society 2007.'] ['This paper studies the characteristics of departures from monetary unions. During the post-war period, almost seventy distinct countries or territories have left a currency union, while over sixty have remained continuously in currency unions. I compare countries leaving currency unions with those remaining within them, and find that leavers tend to be larger, richer, and more democratic; they also tend to have higher inflation. However, there are typically no sharp macroeconomic movements before, during, or after exits.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["I search for a 'scale' effect in countries. I use a panel data set that includes 200 countries over forty years and link the population of a country to a host of economic and social phenomena. Using both graphical and statistical techniques, I search for an impact of size on the level of income, inflation, material well-being, health, education, the quality of a country's institutions, heterogeneity, and a number of different international indices and rankings. I have little success; small countries are more open to international trade than large countries, but are not systematically different otherwise.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['Is it better to live in a big country than a small one? In this paper, I examine whether economic and social conditions vary systematically with the population of a country. Economics provides a number of theoretical reasons why country size should matter, for instance, because of increasing returns to scale or because it is easier to provide public goods to a larger populace. However, there is little empirical evidence linking the scale of country size to any of a multitude of indicators of economic and social welfare.'] ['A vil\xc3\xa1g 115 orsz\xc3\xa1g\xc3\xa1nak - k\xc3\xb6zt\xc3\xbck 21 OECD-tagorsz\xc3\xa1g - 40 \xc3\xa9vnyi adatait vizsg\xc3\xa1lva, arra a k\xc3\xb6vetkeztet\xc3\xa9sre jutottunk, hogy a hasonl\xc3\xb3 \xc3\xa1llami k\xc3\xb6lts\xc3\xa9gvet\xc3\xa9si poz\xc3\xadci\xc3\xb3j\xc3\xba orsz\xc3\xa1gok konjunkt\xc3\xbaraciklusai k\xc3\xb6z\xc3\xb6tt szorosabb egy\xc3\xbcttmozg\xc3\xa1s mutathat\xc3\xb3 ki. Azaz, a fisk\xc3\xa1lis konvergenci\xc3\xa1t (amelyet a k\xc3\xb6lts\xc3\xa9gvet\xc3\xa9si egyenleg GDP-hez viszonyt ar\xc3\xa1ny\xc3\xa1nak konvergenci\xc3\xa1jak\xc3\xa9nt defini\xc3\xa1ltunk) \xc3\xb6sszehangoltabb konjunkt\xc3\xbaraciklusokkal lehet \xc3\xb6sszef\xc3\xbcgg\xc3\xa9sbe hozni. Kutat\xc3\xa1saink sor\xc3\xa1n arra is tal\xc3\xa1ltunk bizony\xc3\xadt\xc3\xa9kot, hogy a kisebb m\xc3\xa9rt\xc3\xa9k\xc5\xb1 k\xc3\xb6lts\xc3\xa9gvet\xc3\xa9si deficitek n\xc3\xb6velik a konjunkt\xc3\xbaraciklusok egy\xc3\xbcttmozg\xc3\xa1s\xc3\xa1t. A maastrichti konvergenciakrit\xc3\xa9riumok - amelyek az eur\xc3\xb3pai monet\xc3\xa1ris uni\xc3\xb3 k\xc3\xb6vetelm\xc3\xa9nyeinek val\xc3\xb3 megfelel\xc3\xa9st hivatottak meghat\xc3\xa1rozni - a fisk\xc3\xa1lis konvergenci\xc3\xa1t \xc3\xa9s a k\xc3\xb6lts\xc3\xa9gvet\xc3\xa9si deficit cs\xc3\xb6kkent\xc3\xa9s\xc3\xa9t \xc3\xb6szt\xc3\xb6n\xc3\xb6zt\xc3\xa9k, s ezzel k\xc3\xb6zvetett m\xc3\xb3don hozz\xc3\xa1seg\xc3\xadtett\xc3\xa9k Eur\xc3\xb3p\xc3\xa1t egy optim\xc3\xa1lis valuta\xc3\xb6vezet l\xc3\xa9trehoz\xc3\xa1s\xc3\xa1hoz az\xc3\xa1ltal, hogy cs\xc3\xb6kkent az egyes orsz\xc3\xa1gok lehet\xc5\x91s\xc3\xa9ge a felel\xc5\x91tlen fisk\xc3\xa1lis politika \xc3\xa1ltal gerjesztett sokkhat\xc3\xa1sok l\xc3\xa9trehoz\xc3\xa1s\xc3\xa1ra. Az \xc3\xa1ltalunk felt\xc3\xa1rt empirikus eredm\xc3\xa9nyek gazdas\xc3\xa1gi \xc3\xa9s statisztikai szempontb\xc3\xb3l is szignifik\xc3\xa1nsak \xc3\xa9s robusztusak. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) k\xc3\xb3d: F42.'] [' This paper estimates the effect on international trade of three multilateral organizations intended to increase trade: (1) the World Trade Organization (WTO) and its predecessor the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT); (2) the International Monetary Fund (IMF); and (3) the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and its predecessor the Organisation for European Economic Co-operation (OEEC). I use a standard "gravity" model of bilateral merchandise trade and a large panel dataset covering over 50 years and 175 countries. My results indicate that OECD membership has had a consistently large positive effect on trade, while accession to the GATT/WTO also increases trade. Copyright Blackwell Publishing Ltd 2005.'] [' Thirty-four recent studies have investigated the effect of currency union on trade, resulting in 754 point estimates of this effect. This paper uses meta-analysis to combine, explain, and to summarize these disparate estimates of common currency trade effects. The hypothesis that there is no effect of currency union on trade is easily and robustly rejected at standard significance levels. Combining these estimates implies that a currency union increases bilateral trade by between 30 and 90%. Although there is evidence of publication selection, there is also evidence of a genuine positive trade effect beyond publication bias. Copyright Blackwell Publishers Ltd, 2005.'] ['This paper estimates the effect of sovereign debt renegotiation on international trade. Sovereign default may be associated with a subsequent decline in international trade either because creditors want to deter default by debtors, or because trade finance dries up after default. To estimate the effect, I use an empirical gravity model of bilateral trade and a large panel data set covering fifty years and over 200 trading partners. The model controls for a host of factors that influence bilateral trade flows, including the incidence of IMF programs. Using the dates of sovereign debt renegotiations conducted through the Paris Club as a proxy measure for sovereign default, I find that renegotiation is associated with an economically and statistically significant decline in bilateral trade between a debtor and its creditors. The decline in bilateral trade is approximately eight per cent a year and persists for around fifteen years.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' I examine the hypothesis that membership in the World Trade Organization (WTO) and its predecessor the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) has increased the stability and predictability of trade flows. I use a large data set covering annual bilateral trade flows between over 175 countries between 1950 and 1999, and estimate the effect of GATT/WTO membership on the coefficient of variation in trade computed over 25-year samples, controlling for a number of factors. I also use a comparable multilateral data set. There is little evidence that membership in the GATT/WTO has a significant dampening effect on trade volatility. Copyright Springer Science + Business Media, Inc. 2005'] [' This paper develops a new methodology to test financial market integration. Our technique is based on an intertemporal asset-pricing model, and relies on estimating and comparing expected discount rates across asset markets. Expected discount rates are allowed to vary freely over time, constrained only by the fact that they are equal across assets. Assets are allowed to have very general risk characteristics, and are constrained only by a linear factor model of covariances with the discount rate over short time periods. We provide a variety of domestic and international empirical illustrations of our technique, and find surprisingly little evidence of integration. Copyright 2005 Blackwell Publishing Ltd'] [' This paper develops a simple methodology to test for asset integration, and applies it within and between American stock markets. Our technique relies on estimating and comparing expected risk-free rates across assets. Expected risk-free rates are allowed to vary freely over time, constrained only by the fact that they must be equal across (risk-adjusted) assets in well-integrated markets. Assets are allowed to have standard risk characteristics, and are constrained by the Fama and French factor model of covariances over short time periods. We find that internal integration in the S&amp;P; 500 market is never rejected and is not generally rejected in the NASDAQ. Integration between the NASDAQ and the S&amp;p;, however, is always rejected dramatically. (JEL: G14) Copyright (c) 2005 by the European Economic Association.'] [" We seek to contribute to the debate over globalization and the environment by asking: What is the effect of trade on a country's environment, for a given level of GDP? We take specific account of the endogeneity of trade, using exogenous geographic determinants of trade as instrumental variables. We find that trade tends to reduce three measures of air pollution. Statistical significance is high for concentrations of SO 2, moderate for NO 2, and lacking for particulate matter. Although results for other environmental measures are not as encouraging, there is little evidence that trade has a detrimental effect on the environment. \xc2\xa9 2005 President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] ["This paper uses 68 measures of trade policy and trade liberalization to ask if membership in theWorld Trade Organization (WTO) and its predecessor the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) is associated with more liberal trade policy. Almost no measures of trade policy are significantly correlated with GATT/WTO membership. Trade liberalizations, when they occur, usually lag GATT entry by many years, and the GATT/WTO often admits countries that are closed and remain closed for years. The exception to the negative rule is that WTO members tend to have slightly more freedom as judged by the Heritage Foundation's index of economic freedom.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['One reason why countries service their external debts is the fear that default might lead to shrinkage of international trade. If so, then creditors should systematically lend more to countries with which they share closer trade links. We develop a simple theoretical model to capture this intuition, then test and corroborate this idea.'] ['This paper develops a simple new methodology to test for asset integration and applies it to the Japanese stock market as represented by the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE). The technique is tightly based on a general intertemporal asset-pricing model, and relies on estimating and comparing expected risk-free rates across assets. Expected risk-free rates are allowed to vary freely over time, constrained only by the fact that they are equal across (risk-adjusted) assets. Assets are allowed to have general risk characteristics, and are constrained only by a factor model of covariances over short time periods. The technique is undemanding in terms of both data and estimation. I find that expected risk-free rates vary dramatically over time, unlike short-term interest rates. Further, the TSE does not always seem to be well integrated in the sense that different portfolios of stocks are priced with different implicit risk-free rates.'] ['This paper estimates the effect on international trade of multilateral trade agreements - the World Trade Organization (WTO), its predecessor the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), and the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) extended from rich countries to developing countries. I use a standard "gravity" model of bilateral merchandise trade and a large panel data set covering over 50 years and 175 countries. An extensive search reveals little evidence that countries joining or belonging to the GATT/WTO have different trade patterns from outsiders, though the GSP seems to have a strong effect.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Policy-makers often justify their choice of fixed exchange rate regimes as a shelter against nonfundamental influences in the foreign exchange market. This paper proposes a framework, based on endogenous noise trading, which makes sense of the policy-makers\' view. We show that as a result of multiple equilibria, the model violates Mundell\'s "Incompatible Trinity:" under some conditions, it is possible to reduce the volatility of the exchange rate without any sacrifice in terms of monetary autonomy. We provide empirical evidence supportive of the existence of a nonfundamental channel in the link between exchange rate regimes and exchange rate volatility. If . . . markets come to believe exchange rate stability is not itself a significant policy objective, we should not be surprised that snowballing cumulative movements can develop that appear widely out of keeping with current balance-of-payments prospects or domestic price movements. At that point, freely floating exchange rates, instead of delivering on the promise of money autonomy for domestic monetary or other policies, can greatly complicate domestic economic management [Paul Volcker 1978-79, p. 9]. \xc2\xa9 2001 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['This paper tests for uncovered interest parity (UIP) using daily data for 23 developing and developed countries during the crisis-strewn 1990s. We find that UIP works better on average in the 1990s than in previous eras in the sense that the slope coefficient from a regression of exchange rate changes on interest differentials yields a positive coefficient (which is sometimes insignificantly different from unity). UIP works systematically worse for fixed and flexible exchange rate countries than for crisis countries, but we find no significant differences between rich and poor countries. Copyright 2002, International Monetary Fund'] ['Does leaving a currency union reduce international trade? We answer this question using a large annual panel data set covering 217 countries from 1948 through 1997. During this sample a large number of countries left currency unions; they experienced economically and statistically significant declines in bilateral trade, after accounting for other factors. Assuming symmetry, we estimate that a pair of countries that starts to use a common currency experiences a doubling in bilateral trade.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" To quantify the implications of common currencies for trade and income, we use data for over 200 countries and dependencies. In our two-stage approach, estimates at the first stage suggest that belonging to a currency union/board triples trade with other currency union members. Moreover, there is no evidence of trade diversion. Our estimates at the second stage suggest that every 1 percent increase in a country's overall trade (relative to GDP) raises income per capita by at least one-third of a percent. We combine the two estimates to quantify the effect of common currencies on output. Our results support the hypothesis that important beneficial effects of currency unions come through the promotion of trade. \xc2\xa9 2001 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology"] [" This paper characterizes the integration patterns of international currency unions (such as the CFA Franc Zone). We empirically explore different features of currency unions, and compare them to countries with sovereign monies by examining the criteria for Mundell's concept of an optimum currency area. We find that members of currency unions are more integrated than countries with their own currencies. For instance, we find that currency union members have more trade and less volatile real exchange rates than countries with their own monies; business cycles are more highly synchronized across currency union countries than across countries with sovereign monies."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The simple gravity equation explains a great deal about the data on bilateral trade flows and is consistent with several theoretical models of trade. We argue that alternative theories nevertheless predict subtle differences in key parameter values, depending on whether goods are homogeneous or differentiated and whether or not there are barriers to entry. Our empirical work for differentiated goods delivers results consistent with the theoretical predictions of the monopolistic-competition model, or a reciprocal-dumping model with free entry. Homogeneous goods are described by a model with national (Armington) product differentiation or by a reciprocal-dumping model with barriers to entry.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The impact of a common currency on trade can be grossly mismeasured if countries that belong to currency unions are systematically different from those that do not, and if the relationship between trade and its observable determinants is complex. I argue that such complications are plausible and likely to distort the empirical results of a recent Economic Policy paper by Andrew Rose (Issue 30, 2000: pp. 7-45). Using techniques designed to be robust in this situation, I find that the effects of common currency on international trade are considerably less dramatic and much less precisely estimated. Copyright CEPR, CES, MSH, 2001.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We develop a procedure to rank-order objects using censored panel data sets. We illustrate this by ranking countries and commodities using disaggregated American import data and find evidence that countries and commodities can be ranked. Countries habitually begin to export goods to the United States according to an ordering; goods are also exported in order. We estimate these orderings using a methodology, that takes account of the fact that most goods are not exported by most countries in our sample. Our orderings seem sensible, robust, and intuitive, and they are correlated with macroeconomic phenomena such as productivity and growth rates. \xc2\xa9 2000 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Exchange rate regimes differ primarily by the activity of the exchange rate, not observable macroeconomic \xe2\x80\x98fundamentals\xe2\x80\x99. Fixed exchange rates are typically stable and floating exchange rates are volatile, but macro phenomena are regime-independent. Fundamentals only seem to be relevant for exchange rates at low frequencies or when inflation is high. A basic task of international finance is explaining these cross-regime differences in exchange rate volatility. The evidence suggests that a switch in exchange rate policy is accompanied by a change in market structure; macroeconomic considerations are superfluous. We formalize this observation in a non-linear model with multiple equilibria.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Currency crises tend to be regional; they affect countries in geographic proximity. This suggests that patterns of international trade are important in understanding how currency crises spread, above and beyond any macroeconomic phenomena. We provide empirical support for this hypothesis. Using data for five different currency crises (in 1971, 1973, 1992, 1994, and 1997) we show that currency crises affect clusters of countries tied together by international trade. By way of contrast, macroeconomic and financial influences are not closely associated with the cross-country incidence of speculative attacks. We also show that trade linkages help explain cross-country correlations in exchange market pressure during crisis episodes, even after controlling for macroeconomic factors.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" A country's suitability for entry into a currency union depends on a number of economic conditions. These include, inter alia, the intensity of trade with other potential members of the currency union, and the extent to which domestic business cycles are correlated with those of the other countries. But international trade patterns and international business cycle correlations are endogenous. This paper develops and investigates the relationship between the two phenomena. Using thirty years of data for twenty industrialized countries, the authors uncover a strong and striking empirical finding: countries with closer trade links tend to have more tightly correlated business cycles."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The authors address the fact that the incidence of speculative attacks tends to be temporally correlated; that is, currency crises appear to pass 'contagiously' from one country to another. The paper provides a survey of the theoretical literature. The authors also provide empirical evidence consistent with the contagious nature of currency crises. They estimate that the existence of a currency crisis elsewhere in the world (whether successful or not) raises the probability of an attack on the domestic currency by 8 percent, even after taking account of a variety of domestic political and economic factors. Copyright 1996 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We use a panel of annual data for over one hundred developing countries from 1971 through 1992 to characterize currency crashes. We define a currency crash as a large change of the nominal exchange rate that is also a substantial increase in the rate of change of the nominal depreciation. We examine the composition of the debt as well as its level, and a variety of other macroeconomic, external and foreign factors. Our factors are significantly related to crash incidence, especially output growth, the rate of change of domestic credit, and foreign interest rates. A low ratio of FDI to debt is consistently associated with a high likelihood of a crash.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper addresses the issue of whether regimes of fixed exchange rates are a mechanism for shifting volatility inter-temporally. Using a panel of data covering twenty industrialized countries from 1959 through 1993, I examine the volatilities of a host of real and monetary variables. Graphical and statistical examination of the periods around 33 flotations and 81 devaluations reveals little evidence of significant increases in volatility following these events. Copyright @ 1996 by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd. All rights reserved.'] ["The paper is concerned with exchange rate instability, by which we mean large changes in exchange rates. The paper has two objectives. First, we search for plausible determinants of currency crashes. To do this we examine annual panel data for a large sample of developing countries. The work is non-structural, taking the form of probit regressions which link currency crashes to a variety of candidate causes. We examine a comprehensive set of both foreign and domestic explanatory variables. The list includes: foreign conditions; the vulnerability of the country to a crash; the level of external indebtedness; the composition of this debt; measures of domestic government policy; and measures of the state of well-being of the economy. The second objective of the paper is to examine the predictability of exchange rate crashes. For this, we use quarterly time series data from eight countries in the European Monetary System to calibrate two structural models of speculative currency attacks. The first model relies on a traditional monetary approach to exchange rate determination in a target zone, and the second uses a Markov-switching model with time-varying transition probabilities. Both models are calibrated using nontraditional methods to determine model parameters, as we are primarily interested in our models' ability to predict the exchange rate regime that will prevail in the next quarter. In consonance with the older literature on empirical exchange rate models, we do a reasonable job in-sample of predicting currency crises, but a very poor job of forecasting currency crises one quarter ahead.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [" Regressions of ex post changes in floating exchange rates on appropriate interest differentials typically imply that the high-interest rate currency tends to appreciate, the 'forward discount puzzle.' Using data from the European Monetary System (EMS), the authors find that a large part of the forward discount puzzle vanishes for regimes of fixed exchange rates. That is, deviations from uncovered interest parity appear to vary in a way that is dependent upon the exchange rate regime. By using the many EMS realignments, the authors are also able to quantify the 'peso problem.' Copyright 1996 by MIT Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Previous time-series studies have shown evidence of mean-reversion in real exchange rates. Deviations from purchasing power parity (PPP) appear to have half-lives of approximately four years. The long samples required for statistical significance are unavailable for most currencies, however, and may be inappropriate because of regime changes. In this study, we re-examine deviations from PPP using a panel of 150 countries and 45 annual observations. Our panel shows strong evidence of mean-reversion that is similar to that from long time-series. PPP deviations are eroded at a rate of approximately 15% annually, i.e. their half-life is around four years. Such findings can be masked in time-series data, but are relatively easy to find in cross-sections.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" Intraday interest rates are zero. Consequently, a foreign exchange dealer can short a vulnerable currency in the morning, close this position in the afternoon, and never face an interest cost. This tactic might seem especially attractive in times of fixed-rate crisis, since it suggests an immunity to the central bank's interest rate defense. In equilibrium, however, buyers of the vulnerable currency must be compensated on average with an intraday capital gain as long as no devaluation occurs. That is, currencies under attack should typically appreciate intraday. Using data on intraday exchange rate changes within the European Monetary System, we find this prediction is borne out. Copyright 1995 by American Finance Association."] [' This paper looks for dynamic patterns in international trade flows using comprehensive multilateral data for six countries, disaggregated to the four-digit SITC level. The purpose of the paper is to compare predictions of persistent trade balances generated by theories of international trade, such as factor-proportions, with more dynamic theories such as the product cycle. Little evidence is found of dynamic trade behavior at the industry level between 1962 and 1990 for Brazil, Japan, South Korea, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Rather, goods that begin the sample in surplus (deficit) almost always remain in surplus (deficit) throughout the sample. Copyright 1995 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['Fixed exchange rates are less volatile than floating rates. But the volatility of macroeconomic variables such as money and output does not change very much across exchange rate regimes. This suggests that exchange rate models based only on macroeconomic fundamentals are unlikely to be very successful. It also suggests that there is no clear tradeoff between reduced exchange rate volatility and macroeconomic stability.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" Expected rates of devaluation for the French franc/Deutsche mark exchange rate during the EMS are estimated using the 'drift adjustment' method. Exchange rates within the band display strong mean reversion. The adjustment term, the expected rate of depreciation within the band, is often of the same magnitude as interest rate differentials. Bilateral exchange rate limits towards other ERM currencies have a significant and sizeable effect on estimated expected rates of devaluation. The behavior of estimated expected rates of depreciation within the band accords fairly well with the theoretical model of Bertola and Svensson (1993). Estimated expected rates of devaluation to some extent predict actual realignments. Copyright 1995 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics."] ['Realignment expectations which measure exchange rate credibility are analyzed for European exchange rates, using daily financial data since the inception of the EMS. It is difficult to find economically meaningful relationships between realignment expectations and macroeconomic variables, although there are signs that lower inflation improves credibility. Statistically, many movements to realignment expectations are common to ERM participants. There were few indications of poor ERM credibility before late August 1992; the dimensions of the currency crisis of September 1992 appear to have taken both policy-makers and private agents largely by surprise.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper argues that macroeconomic variables are relatively unimportant determinants of exchange rates. The argument hinges on the fact that bilateral exchange rate volatility differs widely across pairs of countries, but macroeconomic volatility is much more similar across countries, at least at short- and medium-term frequencies. For instance, the French Franc/German Deutschemark exchange rate has dramatically lower volatility than the Canadian dollar/German Deutschemark rate, although France and Canada have approximately equal macroeconomic volatility vis-a-vis Germany.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In the context of a flexible-price monetary exchange rate model and the assumption of uncovered interest parity, we obtain a measure of the fundamental determinant of exchange rates. Daily data for the European Monetary System are used to explore the importance of nonlinearities in the relationship between the exchange rates and fundamentals. Many implications of existing \xe2\x80\x9ctarget-zone\xe2\x80\x9d exchange rate models are tested; little support is found for existing nonlinear models of limited exchange rate flexibility.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Trade of the OECD countries has grown faster than income during the postwar period. This paper tests a number of different hypotheses for the observed growth in the trade/income ratio. For small open economies, increases in real output and international reserves, as well as declines in tariff rates, are associated with growth in the ratio. There are important differences in the behavior of the trade ratio across time and country size.'] [' This paper examines the empirical relation between nominal exchange rates and macroeconomic fundamentals for five major OECD countries between 1974 and 1987. Five theoretical models of exchange rate determination are considered. Potential non-linearities are examined using a variety of parametric and nonparametric techniques. The authors find that the poor explanatory power of the models considered cannot be attributed to nonlinearities, arising from time-deformation or improper functional form. Copyright 1991 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper explains upward job mobility and observed patterns of unemployment by skill as an economy recovers from a recession. Skilled unemployment is due to rational waiting by workers looking for long-term jobs when there is a "lock-in" effect. Lock-in occurs if the conditions in the labor market when a worker first accepts a job have a persistent effect on wages. Using longitudinal data, we provide empirical evidence of the cyclical pattern of wages predicted by the theory and also of lock-in.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Univariate time series models for consumption, nominal interest rat es, and prices each appear to have a single unit-root before 1979. If nominal interest rates have a unit-root , but inflation and forecast errors do not, then ex ante real interest rates have a unit-root and are therefore nonstationary. The unit-root characteristic of real interest rates is puzzling: man y models imply that the growth rate of consumption and the real interest rate should have similar time-series characteristics; also, nominal returns for other assets appear to have very different time-series properties. Copyright 1988 by American Finance Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']