 ['At a time of public concern about rising national debt, we should consider adapting simple lessons from corporate finance to government finance. Mark J. Kamstra of York University and Robert J. Shiller of Yale University conclude that government financing tools should include a form of equity: shares in GDP.'] [' In these excerpts from "The Squam Lake Report", fifteen distinguished economists analyze where the global financial system failed, and how such failures might be prevented (or at least their damage better contained) in the future. Although there were many contributing factors to the crisis-including "agency" problems throughout the financial system and a bankruptcy code poorly suited for reorganizing financial firms-at the core of the problem is a potential conflict between the risk-taking proclivity of financial institutions and the interests of the economy at large that must be managed at least in part through more effective regulation. "The Squam Lake Report" provides a nonpartisan plan to transform the regulation of financial markets in ways designed to limit systemic risk while preserving-to the extent possible and prudent-the economies of scale and scope that justify the existence of today\'s large financial institutions. Copyright Copyright (c) 2010 Morgan Stanley.'] ['This paper relates the 2006-2008 meltdown in mortgage markets to falling asset prices, excessive psychological reaction to the burst bubble, and new mortgage vehicles incapable of accommodating sudden changes in asset values. A combination of market-based and regulatory innovations are proposed. The paper suggests placing greater reliance on innovative futures markets in real estate, inducing the flow of capital to vehicles having self-regulatory features and cultivating resiliency in the market. The bankruptcy law also might come to include \xc2\x93circuit breaker" delays in finalizing settlements during turbulent market settings. Some of the fundamental premises underlying mortgage finance should also be reconsidered. Stakes in individual residences could be combined with stakes in regional property portfolios. Finally, the paper promotes a system of \xc2\x93continuous workout mortgages" regularly readjusting loan balances to reflect economic conditions. These contracts could provide needed flexibility; they also offer systematic advantages over the various sector-based bailout strategies inherent in current loan-modification proposals.'] ["Land isn't that scarce and people just don't seem to understand how little housing should and will appreciate long term. These irrational expectations are likely to bite us again and again with more housing bubbles, according to Robert Shiller."] ['This study proposes that the Government of Canada issue a new debt security, the \xe2\x80\x9cTrill,\xe2\x80\x9d which would essentially offer Canadian investors an equity stake in the Canadian economy. The Trill is so-named because its coupon payment would be one-trillionth of Canada\xe2\x80\x99s GDP. Similar to shares issued by corporations paying a fraction of corporate earnings in dividends, the Trill would pay a fraction of the \xe2\x80\x9cearnings\xe2\x80\x9d of Canada. Coupon payments would rise and fall with the GDP.'] ['This paper looks for markers of ends of real estate booms or busts. The changes in market psychology and related indicators that occurred at real estate market turning points in the United States since the 1980s are compared with changes at turning points in the more distant past. In all these episodes, changes in an atmosphere of optimism about the future course of home prices, changes in public interpretation of the boom, as well as evidence of supply response to the high prices of a boom are noted. Eastern Economic Journal (2008) 34, 1\xe2\x80\x9313. doi:10.1057/palgrave.eej.9050001'] ['This paper looks at a broad array of evidence concerning the recent boom in home prices, and considers what this means for future home prices and the economy. It does not appear possible to explain the boom in terms of fundamentals such as rents or construction costs. A psychological theory, that represents the boom as taking place because of a feedback mechanism or social epidemic that encourages a view of housing as an important investment opportunity, fits the evidence better. Three case studies of past booms are considered for comparison: the US housing boom of 1950, the US farmland boom of the 1970s, and the temporary interruption 2004-5 of the UK housing boom. The paper concludes that while it is possible that prices will continue to go up as is commonly expected, there is a high probability of steady and substantial real home price declines extending over years to come.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['There has been a widespread perception in the past few years that long-term asset prices are generally high because monetary authorities have effectively kept long-term interest rates, which the market uses to discount cash flows, low. This perception is not accurate. Long-term interest rates have not been especially low. What has changed to produce high asset prices appears instead to be changes in popular economic models that people actually rely on when valuing assets. The public has mostly forgotten the concept of "real interest rate." Money illusion appears to be an important factor to consider.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["Robert Shiller looks at over 100 years of data and asks the question every homeowner wants to know: what is the short-term and long-term prognosis for real estate values? The news isn't reassuring, but luckily risk markets are being developed to help people hedge or buy insurance against the risk that Shiller unveils."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The behavioral finance revolution in academic finance in the last several decades is best described as a return to a more eclectic approach to financial modeling. The earlier neoclassical finance revolution that had swept the finance profession in the 1960s and 1970s represented the overly-enthusiastic pursuit of only one model. Freed from the tyranny of just one model, financial research is now making faster progress, and that progress can be expected to show material benefits. An example of the application of both behavioral finance and neoclassical finance is discussed: the reform of Social Security and the introduction of personal accounts. Copyright 2006 by the Eastern Finance Association.'] ["Behavioral economics has played a fundamental role historically in innovation in economic institutions even long before behavioral economics was recognized as a discipline. Examples from history, notably that of the invention of workers' compensation, illustrate this point. Though scholarly discussion develops over decades, actual innovation tends to occur episodically, particularly at times of economic crisis. Fortunately, some of the major professional societies, the Verein f\xc3\xbcr Sozialpolitik, the American Economic Association, and their successors, have managed to keep a broad discourse going involving a variety of research methods, including some that may be described today as behavioral economics, thereby maintaining an environment friendly to institutional innovation. Further, the broad expansion of behavioral economics that is going on today can be expected to yield even more such important institutional innovations."] ['We examine the link between increases in housing wealth, financial wealth, and consumer spending. We rely upon a panel of 14 countries observed annually for various periods during the past 25 years and a panel of U.S. states observed quarterly during the 1980s and 1990s. We impute the aggregate value of owner-occupied housing, the value of financial assets, and measures of aggregate consumption for each of the geographic units over time. We estimate regression models in levels, first differences and in error-correction form, relating consumption to income and wealth measures. We find a statistically significant and rather large effect of housing wealth upon household consumption.'] [' A comment on the article by John Geanakoplos in this volume. Copyright 2005 American Journal of Economics and Sociology, Inc..'] ['A life-cycle portfolio for personal accounts within Social Security, such as President George Bush has proposed, would adjust risk exposure as a function of the worker\xc2\x92s age. This would involve the government in making complex dynamic portfolio decisions for individuals. The conventional rule of thumb that workers should invest a percentage of their portfolio equal to roughly 100 minus their age in stocks appears to be far from optimal. Choosing the optimal portfolio requires considering issues of behavioral economics such as why people do not already invest optimally and what kinds of people will sign up for the life-cycle portfolio.'] [' Samuelson has offered the dictum that the stock market is "micro efficient" but "macro inefficient." That is, the efficient markets hypothesis works much better for individual stocks than it does for the aggregate stock market. In this article, we review a strand of evidence in recent literature that supports Samuelson\'s dictum and present one simple test, based on a regression and a simple scatter diagram, that vividly illustrates the truth in Samuelson\'s dictum for the U.S. stock market data since 1926.(JEL G14) Copyright 2005, Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The efficient markets theory reached the height of its dominance in academic circles around the 1970s. Faith in this theory was eroded by a succession of discoveries of anomalies, many in the 1980s, and of evidence of excess volatility of returns. Finance literature in this decade and after suggests a more nuanced view of the value of the efficient markets theory, and, starting in the 1990s, a blossoming of research on behavioral finance. Some important developments since 1990 include feedback theories, models of the interaction of smart money with ordinary investors, and evidence on obstacles to smart money.'] ['This paper looks for evidence of a bubble in U.S. housing prices. It analyzes quarterly state-level data over 1985-2002, focusing on the relationship between home prices and selected fundamental variables. Income per capita alone largely explains price changes in all but eight states; in the latter, large price movements are observed unrelated to the fundamentals. Results from a new survey of recent homebuyers in the Los Angeles, San Francisco, Boston, and Milwaukee metropolitan areas are reported. This survey replicates an almost identical 1988 survey and finds, as before, that buyers in most of these markets perceive little risk in their housing investment, have unrealistic expectations about future price increases, and hold economically implausible beliefs about home price behavior\xe2\x80\x94findings consistent with a bubble. Prices in such markets could stall or decline, but only if such declines are simultaneous or spread to other markets are significant effects on the national economy likely.'] ["We construct a new method of decomposing the variance of national incomes into components in such a way as to indicate the most important 'residual' risk-sharing opportunities among peoples of the world. The risk-sharing opportunities we study are nonsystematic risk-sharing opportunities. These are the risk-sharing opportunities that remain if systematic risk were already shared, see Athanasoulis and Shiller (2000). The new method developed here uses a simpler approach to deriving the components based on pure variance reduction. With the new method, the income component securities are derived in terms of eigenvectors of a transformed variance matrix of world incomes, but with this method the transformation is to use the residuals when incomes are regressed on world income instead of deviations of incomes from average world income as in Athanasoulis and Shiller (2001). The method is applied using Summers-Heston (1991)data on national incomes for large countries 1950-1990, using two different methods of estimating variances.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['A method is constructed for decomposing the variance of changes in incomes in the world into components, to indicate the most important risk-sharing opportunities among people of the world. A constant absolute risk premium (CARP) model, an intertemporal general-equilibrium model of the world, is presented to permit optimal contract design. For a contract designer maximizing a social welfare function, the optimal contracts maximize the equilibrium world real interest rate. Securities are defined in terms of eigenvectors of a transformed variance matrix. The method is applied using Penn World Table data on the G-7 countries, 1950-92.'] [' Home equity conversion as presently constituted or proposed usually does not deal well with the problem of moral hazard. Once homeowners know that the risk of poor market performance of their homes is borne by investors, they have an incentive to neglect to take steps to maintain the homes values. They may thus create serious future losses for the investors. A calibrated model for assessing this moral-hazard risk is presented that is suitable for a number of home equity conversion forms: (1) reverse mortgages, (2) home equity insurance, (3) shared-appreciation mortgages, (4) housing partnerships, (5) shared-equity mortgages and (6) sale of remainder interest. Modifications of these forms involving real estate price indexes are proposed that might deal better with the problem of moral hazard. Copyright American Real Estate and Urban Economics Association.'] [' Arguments for creating a market to allow trading the portfolio of all endowments in the entire world, the market portfolio: are considered. This world share market would represent a radical innovation, since at the present time only a small fraction of world endowments are traded. Using a stochastic endowment economy where preferences are mean variance. It is shown that creating such a market may be justified in terms of its contribution to social welfare. It is also argued that creating a market for world shares is attractive for certain reasons of robustness and simplicity. Article published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Financial Studies in its journal, The Review of Financial Studies.'] [' A framework for comparing real estate valuation systems (including automated valuation models (AVMs) and current appraisal methods) is proposed. The density estimation and profit simulation (DEPS) method measures quality of a valuation system by simulating benefits to the mortgage lender who uses this method in mortgage underwriting to limit mortgage portfolio losses due to default. Related simple measures relevant to the selection of a valuation system are also discussed: skewness of the distribution of errors, correlation of valuation errors with current selling price errors, correlation of errors of the valuation system with errors of valuation systems used by competing mortgage lenders, and other measures. Copyright 1999 by Kluwer Academic Publishers'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Social security system old age insurance systems are devices for the sharing of income risks of elderly people with others. Risks can be shared intergenerationally (with the young of the same country), intragenerationally (with other elderly of the same country) or internationally (with foreigners). Barriers to individuals themselves sharing their risks intergenerationally, intragenerationally or internationally are described. Optimal design of government-sponsored social security systems is considered in light of these barriers. Alternative benefits and contributions formulas for pay-as-you-go social security systems are defined and compared with existing and proposed formulas in terms of their ability to fulfill the government's role in promoting risk sharing. Benefits for each retired person may be tied to that person's lifetime income without causing (as with the US benefits formula today) aggregate benefits for all elderly today to be tied to their past aggregate income.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' Home equity insurance policies--policies insuring homeowners against declines in the prices of their homes--would bear some resemblance both to ordinary insurance and to financial hedging vehicles. A menu of choices for the design of such policies is presented here, and conceptual issues are discussed. Choices include pass-through futures and options, in which the insurance company in effect serves as a retailer to homeowners of short positions in real estate futures markets or of put options on real estate indices. Another choice is a life-event-triggered insurance policy, in which the homeowner pays regular fixed insurance premia and is entitled to a claim if both a sufficient decline in the real estate price index and a specified life event (such as a move beyond a certain geographical distance) occur. Pricing of the premia to cover loss experience is derived, and tables of break-even policy premia are shown, based on estimated models of Los Angeles housing prices from 1971 to 1994. Copyright 1999 by Kluwer Academic Publishers'] ["Uncertainty about national income growth poses significant macroeconomic risk to households all over the world. To help reduce investors' exposure, researchers have proposed a controversial new set of security markets called macro markets. These international markets would trade long-term claims on the income of an entire country or region. For example, in a macro market for the United States, an investor could buy a claim on the U.S. national income and then receive dividends equal to a fraction of national income for as long as the claim is held. Although many barriers stand in the way of the markets' development - including investors' focus on short-term portfolio performance, sizable startup costs, and contract enforcement difficulties - the potential benefits of these markets are great."] [' The authors propose that labor income indices be used to define settlements in many contracts such as labor contracts, indexed bonds, or income securities. They discuss the issues in producing labor income indices for such uses, and develop prototype indices using U.S. data from the Panel Study of Income Dynamics (PSID). People are grouped by a clustering algorithm based on an estimated transition matrix between jobs, by education level, and by skill category. The groupings are defined so that few people move between them. For each grouping The authors generate a labor income index (1968-87) using a hedonic repeated-measures regression method. The indices show substantial variability through time, confirming the potential importance of the use of such indices in contracts. There is also substantial variability across groupings, as for example between the agriculture/labor grouping and other groupings, confirming the importance of using the grouping indices rather than aggregate indices in contracts. Copyright 1998 by The International Association for Research in Income and Wealth.'] [' Why did the Japanese stock market lose most of its value between 1989 and 1992? To help answer this and related questions, the authors have collected parallel time-series data from market participants in both Japan and the United States, 1989-94, on their expectations, attitudes, and theories. Substantial variability within countries through time in these data and, notably, dramatic differences across countries in expectations were found. While no unambiguous explanation of the Japanese crash emerges from the results, the authors do find a clear relation of the crash to changes in Japanese price expectations and speculative strategies. Copyright 1996 by MIT Press.'] [' This paper describes markets for long-term inflation risk and shows the relationship such markets would have to other potential new markets, markets for long-term claims on income aggregates. The paper presents advantages of indexed long-term bonds and advocates as well the establishment of markets for long-term futures in a consumer price index. The potential use for such long-term inflation risk markets is put into perspective here by comparing the long-term risks to the real value of nominal claims to the long-term risks to national products and dividend incomes using data on fifty-four countries for 1950-90. Copyright 1995 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd and The Victoria University of Manchester'] ['Experimental evidence shows that an important reason why people tend to imitate others, to exhibit "herd behavior" is that they assume that the others have information that justifies their actions. The information cascade models of Banerjee [1992] and Bikhchandani et al. [1992] are significant developments in showing some general equilibrium and welfare effects of such rational imitative behavior. But these models as specified may be of limited applicability since they assert that differences across groups in herd behavior can be attributed to the random decisions of first movers. Differences across groups in herd behavior might be explained more often in terms of different modes of interpersonal information transmission. Patterns of human conversation imply great selectivity to the kinds of information transmitted within groups.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["Estimates are made, from time series data on real gross domestic products, of the standard deviations of returns in markets for perpetual claims on countries' incomes. The results indicate that the variability of returns is of a magnitude comparable to that of returns in stock markets. Evidence is shown that there may be only minimal possibility of cross hedging these returns in existing capital markets. Methods of establishing markets for perpetual claims on aggregate incomes are examined. Such markets, by allowing hedging of these aggregate income risks, might make for dramatically more effective international macroeconomic risk sharing than is possible today. Retail institutions are described that might develop around such markets and help the public with their risk management. However, the establishment of such markets would also incur the risk of major financial bubbles and panics.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['The 1980s and 1990s have been turbulent times in the U.S. market for single-family homes. For most of the previous two decades, housing prices across states and metropolitan areas moved together and increased slowly in real terms while regional differences generally remained small. The 1980s and 1990s, in contrast, have seen increased price volatility and sharp differences in price behavior across regions with substantial housing price booms in some regions and major price declines in others. ; These boom-bust cycles had serious consequences for regional economies and national mortgage markets, with the most dramatic cycles occurring in New England and in California. This article compares the boom-bust cycles in single-family home prices in the Boston metropolitan area and in Los Angeles County from 1983 to 1993. The authors analyze the reasons for the similarities and differences between the two areas, both on the way up and on the way down, focusing on speculative behavior on the part of buyers and sellers and the differing behavior of price tiers over the course of the cycle.'] [' One method of testing efficient-markets present-value models for speculative asset prices has been to test whether the variance of price changes exceeds theoretical variance bounds implied by the models. This paper extends this method from variances to covariances, so that one can test whether pairs of speculative asset prices move together too much relative to bounds implied by the efficient-markets models. The new method is used to examine the historical covariance between the U.K. and U.S. stock markets, 1919-89. In this case, no evidence is found of excess covariance between the two markets. Copyright 1993 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['This paper reviews the development of index-based futures and options markets. The thesis is that, while the growth of these markets to date has been dramatic, their development could be extended much further, if some problems of measurement can be solved.'] [' Two proposals are made that may facilitate the creation of derivative market instruments, such as futures contracts, cash settled based on economic indices. The first proposal concerns index number construction: indices based on infrequent measurements of nonstandardized items may control for quality change by using a hedonic repeated measures method, an index number construction method that follows individual assets or subjects through time and also takes account of measured quality variables. The second proposal is to establish markets for perpetual claims on cash flows matching indices of dividends or rents. Such markets may help us to measure the prices of the assets generating these dividends or rents even when the underlying asset prices are difficult or impossible to observe directly. A perpetual futures contract is proposed that would cash settle every day in terms of both the change in the futures price and the dividend or rent index for that day. Copyright 1993 by American Finance Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Real stock prices seem to overreact to changes in long-term interest rates. That is, real stock prices drop when long-term interest rates rise (and rise when they fall) more than would be implied by a rational expectations present value model where expectations are based on a vector autoregression. This overreaction is not associated with any overreaction to changes in the short-run inflation rate. Over the last century real stock prices have shown little reaction to changes in inflation rates, and according to the model they should show little reaction. These conclusions were reached from an analysis of annual data in the united states 1871 to 1989 and the united Kingdom 1918 to 1989.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Random samples of the Moscow and New York populations were compared in their attitudes towards free markets by administering identical telephone interviews in the two countries in May 1990. Although the Soviet respondents were somewhat less likely to accept exchange of money as a solution to personal problems and although their attitudes toward business were less warm, the authors found that the Soviet and American respondents were basically similar in some very important dimensions: in their attitudes toward fairness, income inequality, and incentives and in their understanding of the working of markets. Copyright 1991 by American Economic Association.'] [' This paper examines postwar U.S. term structure data and finds that, for almost any combination of maturities between one month and ten years, a high-yield spread between a longer-term and a shorter-term interest rate forecasts rising shorter-term interest rates over the long term, but a declining yield on the longer-term bond over the short term. This pattern is inconsistent with the expectations theory of the term structure, but is consistent with a model in which the spread is proportional to the value implied by the expectations theory. Copyright 1991 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] ['In a questionnaire survey we asked Japanese institutional investors to recall what they thought and did during the worldwide stock market crash in October, 1987. The results confirm that the drop in U. S. stock prices was the primary factor on their minds, and other news stories in the United States dominated Japanese news stories. A comparison with an earlier survey of U. 5. institutional investors at the time of the crash (Shiller [1987])shows a remarkable similarity between Japanese and U. S. institutional investors in a number of attitudinal and behavioral dimensions. The results suggest that events in the United States were the proximate cause of the crash in Japan, but that the transmission mechanism of the crash was very similar in both countries.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Tests of a representation of the efficient markets model (the dividend-rtaio model of Campbell and Shiller (1988a)) of the stock market can be made by regressing (transformed) ex-post values on (transformed) actual values and testing whether the slope coefficient is one. Such tests are run here with some improvements. The results of the tests are that the efficient markets model is strongly rejected with U.S. data 1901-1987 in favor of an alternative that stock prices should have been much less volatile. Copyright 1990 by MIT Press.'] [' The paper uses quarterly indexes of existing single-family home prices estimated with microdata on properties that sold more than once to estimate excess returns to investment in owner-occupied housing. Housing prices and excess returns are estimated over the period 1970:1 to 1986:3 for Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, San Francisco. Using time-series cross-section regressions we test for the forecastability of prices and excess returns using a number of independent variables. Price changes in one year tend to continue for more than one year in the same direction. The ratio of construction costs to price, changes in adult population and increases in real per capita income all are positively related to excess returns or price changes over the subsequent year. The results add weight to the argument that the market for single-family homes is inefficient. Copyright American Real Estate and Urban Economics Association.'] [' The information contained in one model\'s forecast compared to that in another can be assessed from a regression of actual values on predicted values from the two models. The authors do this for forecasts of real GNP growth rates for different pairs of models. The models include a structural model (the Fair model), various versions of the vector autoregressive model, and various versions of a model the authors call the "autoregressive components" model. The authors\' procedure requires that forecasts make no use of future information and they have been careful to try to insure this, including using the version of the Fair model that existed in 1976, the beginning of their test period. Copyright 1990 by American Economic Association.'] [' Tests of the efficiency of single family home prices are performed using repeat sales prices of 39,210 individual homes in Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco/Oakland for 1970-86. The market does not appear to be efficient. Year-to-year changes in prices tend to be followed by changes in the same direction in the subsequent year. Moreover, information about real interest rates does not appear to be incorporated in prices. There is, thus, a profitable trading rule for persons who are free to time the purchase of their homes. Still, overall, individual housing price changes are not very forecastable. Copyright 1989 by American Economic Association.'] [' The informational content of different forecasts can be compared by regressing the actual change in a variable to be forecasted on forecasts of the change. We use the procedure in Fair and Shiller (1987) to examine the informational content of three sets of ex ante forecasts: the American Statistical Association and National Bureau of Economic Research Survey (ASA), Data Resources Incorporated (DRI), and Wharton Economic Forecasting Associates (WEFA). We compare these forecasts to each other and to "quasi ex ante" forecasts generated from a vector autoregressive model, an autoregressive components model, and a large-scale structural model (the Fair model). Copyright 1989 by MIT Press.'] ['Simple efficient markets models imply that the covariance between prices of speculative assets cannot exceed the covariance between their respective fundamentals unless there is positive information pooling. Positive information pooling occurs when there is more information, in a sense defined here, about the aggregate of the fundamentals than there is about the individual fundamentals. With constant discount rates, the covariance between prices (detrended by dividing by a moving average of lagged dividends) in the U. K. and the U. S. exceeds the covariance of the measure of fundamentals, and there is no evidence of positive information pooling. Regression tests of forecast errors in one country on a real price variable in another country show significantly negative coefficients. When the present value formula uses short rates to discount, there is less evidence of excess comovement.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Small sample properties of parameter estimates and test statistics in the vector autoregressive dividend ratio model (Campbell and Shiller [1988 a,b]) are derived by stochastic simulation. The data generating processes are co integrated vector autoregressive models, estimated subject to restrictions implied by the dividend ratio model, or altered to show a unit root.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Error-correction models for cointegrated economic variables are commonly interpreted as reflecting partial adjustment of one variable to another. We show that error-correction models may also arise because one variable forecasts another. Reduced-form estimates of error-correction models cannot be used to distinguish these interpretations. In an application, we show that the estimated coefficients in the Marsh-Merton [I9871 error-correction model of dividend behavior in the stock market are roughly implied by a near-rational expectations model wherein dividends are persistent and prices are disturbed by some persistent random noise. Their results thus do not demonstrate partial adjustment or "smoothing" by managers, but may reflect little more than the persistence of dividends and the noisiness of prices.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['A questionnaire survey looked at home buyers in May 1988 in two "boom" cities currently experiencing rapid price increases (Anaheim and San Francisco), a "post-boom" city whose home prices are stable or falling a couple years after rapid price increase (Boston) and a "control" city where home prices had been very stable (Milwaukee). Home buyers in the boom cities had much higher expectations for future price increases, and were more influenced by investment motives. The interpretations that people place on the boom are not usually related to any concrete news event; there are instead oft-repeated cliches about home prices. This suggests that sudden real estate booms have, at least in part, a social, rather than rational or economic, basis. There is evidence for excess demand in boom markets and excess supply in the post-boom market; there appear to be various reasons for this: notions of fairness, intrinsic worth, popular theories about prices, coordination problems, and simple mistakes.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['A linearization of a rational expectations present value model for corporate stock prices produces a simple relation between the log dividend-price ratio and mathematical expectations of future log real dividend changes and future real discount rates. This relation can be tested using vector autoregressive methods. Three versions of the linearized model, differing in the measure of discount rates, are tested for United States time series 1981-1986: versions using real interest rate data. The results yield a metric to judge the relative importance of real dividend growth, measured real discount rates and unexplained factors in determining the dividend-price ratio.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper presents estimates indicating that, for aggregate U.S. stock market data 1871-1986, a long historical average of real earnings is a good predictor of the present value of future real dividends. This is true even when the information contained in stock prices is taken into account. We estimate that for each year the optimal forecast of the present value of future real dividends is roughly a weighted average of moving average earnings and current real price, with between 2/3 and 3/4 of the weight on the earnings measure. This means that simple present value models of stock prices can be strongly rejected. We use a vector autoregressive approach which enables us to compute the implications of this for the behavior of stock prices and returns. We estimate that log dividend-price ratios are more variable than, and virtually uncorrelated with, their theoretical counterparts given the present value models. Annual returns on stocks are quite highly correlated with their theoretical counterparts, but are two to four times as variable. Our approach also reveals the connection between recent papers showing forecastability of long-horizon returns on corporate stocks, and earlier literature claiming that stock prices are too volatile to be accounted for in terms of simple present value models. We show that excess volatility directly implies the forecastability of long-horizon returns.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["The consumption based asset pricing model predicts that excess yields are determined in a fairly simple way by the market's degree of relative risk aversion and by the pattern of covariances between percapita consumption growth and asset returns. Estimation and testingis complicated by the fact that the model's predictions relate to the instantaneous flow of consumption and point-in-time asset values, but only data on the integral or unit average of the consumption flow is available. In our paper, we show how to estimate the parameters of interest consistently from the available data by maximum likelihood. We estimate the market's degree of relative risk aversion and the instantaneous covariances of asset yields and consumption using six different data sets. We also test the model's overidentifying restrictions.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper uses data on nearly a million homes sold in four metropolitan areas -- Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas and San Francisco -- to construct quarterly indexes of existing home prices between 1970 and 1986. We propose and apply a new method of constructing such indexes which we call the method of constructing such indexes which we call the weighted repeat sales method (WRS). We believe the results give an accurate picture of the actual rate of appreciation in home prices in the four cities. The paper explains the construction of the index, discusses the results and compares them with the National Association of Realtors data on the median price of existing single family homes for the period 1981-1986.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Application of some advances in econometrics (in the theory of cointegrated vector autoregressive models) enables us to deal effectively with two problems in rational-expectations, present-valu e models: nonstationarity of time series and incomplete data on infor mation of market participants. With U.S. data, the authors find some relatively encouraging new results for the rational-expectations theo ry of the term structure and some puzzling results for the present-va lue model of stock prices. Copyright 1987 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Power functions of tests of the random walk hypothesis versus stationary first order autoregressive alternatives are tabulated for samples of fixed span but various frequencies of observation.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Recent empirical research on the term structure of interest rates has shown that the long-term interest rate is well described by adistributed lag on short-term interest rates, but does not conform to the expectations theory of the term structure. It has been suggested that the long rate "overreacts" to the short rate. This paper presents aunified taxonomy of risk premia, or deviations from the expectations theory. This enables the hypothesis of overreaction to be formally stated. It is shown that, if anything, the long rate has underreacted to the short rate. However, the independent movement of the long rate is primarily responsible for the failure of the expectations theory.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['A broad exploratory data analysis is conducted to assess the promise of a kind of model in which long-term asset prices change through time primarily due to consumption related changes in the rate of discount. Aggregate consumption data are used to infer ex-post marginal rates of substitution. Prices of stocks, bonds, short debt, land and housing are examined for the period 1890 to 1980, Methods are explored of evaluating this kind of model in the absence of accurate data on consumption.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["The consumption beta theorem of Breeden makes the expected return on any asset a function only of its covariance with changes in aggregate consumption. It is shown that the theorem is more robust than was indicated by Breeden. The theorem obtains even if one deletes Breeden's assumptions that (a) all risky assets are tradable, (b) investors have homogeneous beliefs, (c) other assets can be traded without transactions costs and (d) that all assets have returns which are Ito processes.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['The most familiar interpretation for the large and unpredictable swings that characterize common stock price indices is that price changes represent the efficient discounting of "new information" It is remarkable given the popularity of this interpretation that it has never been established what this information is about. Recent work by Shiller, and Stephen LeRoy and Richard Porter, has shown evidence that the variability of stock price indices cannot be accounted for by information regarding future dividends since dividends just do not seem to vary enough to justify the price movement. These studies assume a constant discount factor. In this paper, we consider whether the variability of stock prices can be attributed to information regarding discount factors (i.e., real interest rates), which are in turn related to current and future levels of economic activity. The appropriate discount factor to be applied to dividends which are received k years from today is the marginal rate of substitution between consumption today and consumption k periods from today, We use historical data on per capita consumption from 1890-1979 to estimate the realized value of these marginal rates of substitution. Theoretically, as LeRoy and C. J. La Civita have also noted independently of us, consumption variability may induce stock price variability whose magnitude depends on the degree of risk aversion.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['My initial motivation for considering volatility measures in the efficient markets models was to clarify the basic smoothing properties of the models to allow an understanding of the assumptions which are implicit in the notion of market efficiency. The efficient markets models, which are described in section II below ,relate a price today to the expected present value of a path of future variables. Since present values are long weighted moving averages, it would seem that price data should be very stable and smooth. These impressions can be formalized in terms of inequalities describing certain variances (section III). The results ought to be of interest whether or not the data satisfy these inequalities, and the procedures ought not to be regarded as just "another test" of market efficiency. Our confidence of our understanding of empirical phenomena is enhanced when we learn how such an obvious property of data as its "smoothness" relates to the model, and to alternative models (section IV below).On further examination of the volatility inequalities, it became clear that the inequalities may also suggest formal tests of market efficiency that have distinct advantages over conventional tests. These advantages take the form of greater power in certain circumstances of robustness to data errors such as misalignment and of simplicity and understandability. An interpretation of volatility tests versus regression tests in terms of the likelihood principle is offered in section V.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper will develop the efficient markets model in Section I to clarify some theoretical questions that may arise in connection with the inequality (1) and some similar inequalities will be derived that put limits on the standard deviation of the innovation in price and the standard deviation of the change in price. The model is restated in innovation form which allows better understanding of the limits on stock price volatility imposed by the model. In particular, this will enable us to see (Section II) that the standard deviation of p is highest when information about dividends is revealed smoothly and that if information is revealed in big lumps occasionally the price series may have higher kurtosis (fatter tails) but will have lower variance. The notion expressed by some that earnings rather than dividend data should be used is discussed in Section III, and a way of assessing the importance of time variation in real discount rates is shown in Section IV. The inequalities are compared with the data in Section V.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['A linearized version of the rational expectations models of the term structure is put forth in terms of a complete vector of equally spaced observations along the yield curve. A data series on intermediate maturity yields which meets the specifications of the model is presented. The model is tested against a specific and easily interpreted alternative. Earlier studies of rational expectations models, which used "volatility tests" or "likelihood ratio tests," are discussed.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The recent literature on rational expectations in macroeconomic theory is surveyed here with the objective of distilling from the various papers useful suggestions for econometric methodology. The paper is not concerned with the empirical questions with which these models have been associated, but rather with the value and usefulness of the concept of rational expectations. The paper begins with a brief discussion of the theory of martingales as it has been applied to microeconomic theory. Then, the general linear rational expectations model (of which most models discussed in the literature are, in terms of their structure, special cases) is developed arid its properties, advantages and drawbacks discussed. The paper concludes with a discussion of the possibilities for estimation arid application of such linear models.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']