 ['Although Norway has a long tradition of public disclosure of tax filings, starting in 2001 anyone with Internet access could obtain individual information on income and income taxes paid. We examine the effect on income reporting of this change in the degree of public disclosure, making use of the fact that prior to 2001, in some municipalities, tax information was distributed widely through locally produced paper catalogs. We find an approximately 3 percent higher average increase in reported income among business owners living in areas where the switch to Internet disclosure represented a large change in access. (JEL H24, H25, H26)'] ['Authority, and the behavioral response to authority, is central to many important questions in public economics, but has received insufficient attention from economists. In particular, research has not differentiated between legitimate power and the presumption of expert knowledge, what we call authority \xe2\x80\x9cto\xe2\x80\x9d and authority \xe2\x80\x9cin.\xe2\x80\x9d In this paper we report on the results of a series of lab experiments designed to distinguish the effects of the two sources of authority on contributions to a public project. The results suggest that authority \xe2\x80\x9cto\xe2\x80\x9d and authority \xe2\x80\x9cin\xe2\x80\x9d interact in ways not heretofore understood. Penalizing non-social behavior without expert explanation does not increase voluntary contributions, nor does expert explanation without the threat of penalty, but together they induce more contributions than any other combination of policies. We interpret these findings to indicate that the reaction to an authority depends on whether that authority is perceived to be legitimate.'] ['This paper critically surveys the large and growing literature estimating the elasticity of taxable income with respect to marginal tax rates using tax return data. First, we provide a theoretical framework showing under what assumptions this elasticity can be used as a sufficient statistic for efficiency and optimal tax analysis. We discuss what other parameters should be estimated when the elasticity is not a sufficient statistic. Second, we discuss conceptually the key issues that arise in the empirical estimation of the elasticity of taxable income using the example of the 1993 top individual income tax rate increase in the United States to illustrate those issues. Third, we provide a critical discussion of selected empirical analyses of the elasticity of taxable income in light of the theoretical and empirical framework we laid out. Finally, we discuss avenues for future research. ( JEL H24, H31, J22)'] ['Notches \xe2\x80\x93 where marginal changes in behavior lead to discrete changes in a tax or subsidy \xe2\x80\x93 figure prominently in many policies. In this paper, we analyze notches in fuel economy policies, which aim to reduce negative externalities associated with fuel consumption. We provide evidence that automakers respond to notches in the Gas Guzzler Tax and mandatory fuel economy labels by precisely manipulating fuel economy ratings so as to just qualify for more favorable treatment. We then describe the welfare consequences of this behavior and derive a welfare summary statistic applicable to many contexts. In brief, notches are an inefficient substitute for smooth policies because they create marginal incentives that vary among decision makers and induce some individual actions that have negative net social benefits.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Recent fiscal policies, including the 2008 stimulus payments and the 2009 Making Work Pay Tax Credit, aimed to increase household spending. This paper quantifies the spending response to these policies and examines differences in spending by whether the stimulus was delivered as a one-time payment or as a flow of payments from reduced withholding. Based on responses from a representative sample of households in the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers, the paper finds that the reduction in withholding in 2009 boosted spending at roughly half the rate (13 percent) as the one-time payments (25 percent) in 2008. (JEL D12, E21, E62)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We analyze the optimal taxation of firms when the government faces fixed (per-firm) administrative costs of tax collection. The tax instruments at the government\'s disposal are a fixed (per-firm) fee and a linear tax on output. If all firms in an industry are taxed, we show that it is optimal to impose a positive fee to internalize administrative costs. The output taxes satisfy the inverse elasticity rule for taxed industries, but industries with sufficiently high administrative costs should be exempted from taxation. We also investigate the case where firms with outputs below a cutoff level can be exempted from taxation. It may be optimal to set the cutoff high enough to exempt a sizable number of firms, even though some firms reduce their outputs to the cutoff level, creating a "missing middle": small and large firms - but not those of intermediate size - exist. Thus, this common phenomenon in developing countries may result from optimal policies. The paper also presents a modified inverse-elasticity rule when output cutoffs are used, and it extends the analysis to include optimal nonlinear taxes on output.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In the aftermath of the recent financial crisis, a variety of taxes on financial institutions have been proposed or enacted. The justifications for these taxes range from punishing those deemed to have caused or unduly profited from the crisis, toaddressing the budgetary costs of the crisis, to better aligning banks\xe2\x80\x99 and bank executives\xe2\x80\x99 incentives in light of the broader social costs and benefits of their actions. Although there is a long-standing literature on corrective, or Pigouvian, taxation, most of it has been applied to environmental externalities, and the externalities that arise from the actions of financial institutions are structurally different. This paper reviews the justifications for special taxes on financial institutions, and addresses what kinds of taxes are most likely to achieve the various stated objectives, which often are in conflict. It then critically assesses the principal taxes that have been proposed or enacted to date: financial transactions taxes, bonus taxes, and taxes on firms in the financial sector based on size, bank liabilities, or excess profits.'] ['Most models of optimal taxation with mobility deal only with real mobility, in the sense that moving out of a jurisdiction\xe2\x80\x99s tax base entails a physical movement. But often escaping a jurisdiction\xe2\x80\x99s tax net does not necessarily entail any physical movement, is often an avoidance (or even evasion) device, and can be accomplished by the \xe2\x80\x9cmere stroke of a pen.\xe2\x80\x9d The cost of such movement, and therefore the base elasticity, is endogenous to both private agent actions and government policy actions. In this paper, I explore the implications of expanding our notion of mobility by first defining it and then addressing its place in optimal taxation.'] ["We study the optimal observability of the tax base within the standard linear income tax problem, where observability is determined by the government's investment into the accurate measurement of the tax base."] ['This paper uses newly available data from the IRS to assess the distributional consequences of U.S. federal income tax noncompliance for the tax year 2001. We find that, when taxpayers are arrayed by their estimated "true" income, defined as reported income adjusted for underreporting, the ratio of aggregate misreported income to true income generally increases with income, although it peaks among taxpayers with adjusted gross income in the 99.0 to 99.5 percentile. In sharp contrast, the ratio of underreported tax to true tax is highest for lower-income taxpayers.'] ['This paper documents the rise of the Internet as a source of state tax-free cigarettes and its impact on taxed sales elasticities. Using data on cigarette tax rates, taxable cigarette sales and individual smoking rates by state from 1980 to 2005 merged with data on Internet penetration, this paper documents that there has been a substantial increase in the sensitivity of taxable cigarette sales to state tax rates that is correlated with the rise of Internet usage within states. The estimates imply that the increased sensitivity from cigarette smuggling over the Internet has lessened the revenue generating potential of cigarette tax increases significantly, although states are still far from the revenue-maximizing tax rates. (JEL D12, H25, H31, H71, L66)'] ["It is entirely appropriate that the study of public finance take seriously 'behavioral' inconsistencies with traditional models of individual and collective decision-making. This raises the question of whether the state should play a role in protecting individuals from themselves, and whether individuals are susceptible to manipulation, or even exploitation, by the people who comprise the state. In this essay I two aspects of this issue - tax complexity and tax compliance. In addressing these issues I ask, and offer some tentative answers to, what is distinctive about behavioral tax economics as a sub-field of behavioral economics and as a sub-field of tax economics."] ["There is a sizeable literature on the effect of minimum legal drinking age (MLDA) restrictions on teenage drunk driving. This paper adds to the literature by examining the effect of MLDA evasion across states with different alcohol restrictions. Using state-of-the-art GIS software and micro-data on fatal vehicle accidents from 1977 to 2002, we find that in counties within 25 miles of a lower-MLDA jurisdiction, a legal restriction on drinking does not reduce youth involvement in fatal accidents and, for 18 and 19-year-old drivers, fatal accident involvement actually increases. Farther from such a border, we find results consistent with the previous literature that MLDA restrictions are effective in reducing accident fatalities. The estimates imply that, of the total reduction in teenager-involved fatalities due to the equalization of state MLDAs at 21 in the 1970s and 1980s, for 18-year olds between a quarter and a third and for 19-year olds over 15 percent was due to equalization. Furthermore, the effect of changes in the MLDA is quite heterogeneous with respect to the fraction of a state's population that need not travel far to cross a border to evade its MLDA. Our results imply the effect of lowering the MLDA in select states, such as has been proposed in Vermont, could lead to sizeable increases in teenage involvement in fatal accidents due to evasion of local alcohol restrictions."] ['Only one-fifth of respondents to a rider on the University of Michigan Survey Research Center\'s Monthly Survey said that the 2008 tax rebates would lead them to mostly increase spending. Almost half said the rebate would mostly lead them to pay off debt, while about a third saying it would lead them mostly to save more. The survey responses imply that the aggregate propensity to spend from the rebate was about one-third, and that there would not be substantially more spending as a lagged effect of the rebates. Because of the low spending propensity, the rebates in 2008 provided low "bang for the buck" as economic stimulus. Putting cash into the hands of the consumers who use it to save or pay off debt boosts their well-being, but it does not necessarily make them spend. Low-income individuals were particularly likely to use the rebate to pay off debt.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['We develop a tax competition framework in which some jurisdictions, called tax havens, are parasitic on the revenues of other countries, and these countries use resources in an attempt to limit the transfer of tax revenue from capital taxation to the havens. We demonstrate that the full or partial elimination of tax havens would improve welfare in non-haven countries. We also demonstrate that the smaller countries choose to become tax havens, and we show that the abolition of a sufficiently small number of the relatively large havens leaves all countries better off, including the remaining havens. We argue that these results extend to the case where there are also taxes on wage income that involve administrative and compliance costs.'] ['While policymakers struggle with identifying and enacting the appropriate short-term policy response to the financial crisis and economic downturn of 2008, 2009, and perhaps beyond, both academics and policymakers are examining the causes of the crisis and what lessons this might bring to bear on longer-term policy. In this paper, I offer some speculations about the lessons for tax policy, and the analysis of tax policy, from the Great Recession. What did we get wrong? What did we underestimate the importance of? What do we need to think more about? One conclusion is that public finance economists need to better integrate the economic analysis of taxation with the concerns and expertise of macroeconomists, finance economists, and accountants. This is especially important for obtaining a better understanding of financial institutions, whose behavior is affected by the tax, accounting, and regulatory rules they face, rules that are inter-related but not coordinated.'] ["We study the stock price reaction to news about corporate tax aggressiveness. We find that, on average, a company's stock price declines when there is news about its involvement in tax shelters. We find some limited evidence for cross-sectional variation in the reaction. For example, the reaction is more negative for firms in the retail sector, suggesting that part of the reaction may be a consumer/taxpayer backlash. In addition, the reaction is less negative for firms that are viewed to be generally less tax aggressive, as proxied by the firm's cash effective tax rate. We interpret this as being consistent with the market reacting positively to evidence that a firm is trying to reduce taxes when their financial reports would lead one to believe the firm is not tax aggressive."] ['This paper argues that who remits tax may be an important aspect of implementing a tax system, in spite of standard economic analysis that maintains that which side of a taxed market remits is completely irrelevant. The irrelevance proposition does not apply in the presence of avoidance and evasion (i.e., in all real tax systems) because the total resource costs of administering a given effective tax structure may vary depending on the remittance system and because the opportunities for avoidance and evasion and the technology of enforcement affect the incentive to demand and supply the taxed activity.'] ['Advances in genetic research promise to loosen the tradeoff between progressivity and efficiency by allowing tax liability (or transfer eligibility) to be based in part on immutable characteristics of individuals (\xe2\x80\x9ctags\xe2\x80\x9d) that are correlated with their expected lot in life. Use of genetic tags would reduce reliance on tax bases (such as income) that are subject to individual choices and, therefore, subject to inefficient distortion to those choices. If genetic information can be used by private employers and insurers, the case for basing tax in part on it becomes more compelling, as genetic inequalities would be exacerbated by market forces.'] ['We examine the effects of a 1992 income tax law change in India that eliminated the tax penalty on wages paid to partners in partnership firms using a large dataset covering all registered plants in the manufacturing sector over the period 1986 to 1995. This tax law change provides a unique opportunity to identify the effects of tax policy changes on firm behavior in a developing country context. We find an immediate and pervasive response by partnership firms to the tax law change, reflected in a significant shifting of income from profits to managerial wages. Because about 50% of registered manufacturing plants operate in the form of partnerships (including most family-run businesses), income-shifting by these firms could have a significant impact on measured wage inequality. We find a sizeable jump in the mean and median relative wage of skilled workers (which includes managers and partners) following the tax law change in 1992. Although this sudden increase in measured wage inequality follows major trade liberalization and deregulation reforms announced earlier (in July 1991), we find that the income-shifting induced by the tax law change explains almost all of the observed increase in measured wage inequality following these reforms. This finding is robust to inclusion of controls for a number of other potential sources of post-liberalization increases in wage inequality. Our results show that firms respond strongly to tax incentives for income-shifting, and highlight the need to control for the potential effects of tax incentives in studies of wage inequality. Because wages received by partners were reported as business income on tax returns, the finding of an increasing share of top wage earners in total wages in India in the 1990s, documented by Banerjee and Piketty [Banerjee, Abhijit, and Thomas Piketty. 2005. "Top Indian Incomes, 1922-2000." The World Bank Economic Review 19 (1): 1-20.] using tax return data, is unlikely to be much affected by the tax reform we analyze here.'] ['A large literature examines the addictive properties of such behaviors as smoking, drinking alcohol, gambling and eating. We argue that for some people addictive behavior may apply to a much more central aspect of economic life: working. Although workaholism raises some of the same health-related concerns as other addictions, compared to most of the more familiar addictions it is more likely to be a problem of higher-income individuals and is more likely to generate negative spillovers onto individuals around the workaholic. Using the Retirement History Survey and the Panel Study of Income Dynamics, we show that high-income, highly educated people exhibit behavior that is consistent with workaholism with regard to retiring\xc2\x96they are more likely to postpone earlier plans for retirement. The theory and evidence suggest that the presence of workaholism calls for a more progressive income tax system than otherwise, although other more targeted policies may be part of optimal policy.'] ['This paper examines managerial compensation in an environment where managers may take a hidden action that affects the actual earnings of the firm. When realized, these earnings constitute hidden information that is privately observed by the manager, who may expend resources to generate an inflated earnings report. We characterize the optimal managerial compensation contract in this setting, and demonstrate that contracts contingent on reported earnings cannot provide managers with the incentive both to maximize profits, and to report those profits honestly. As a result, some degree of earnings management must be tolerated as a necessary part of an efficient agreement.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" This article estimates the degree of tax noncompliance using evidence from unaudited tax returns. Measurements of noncompliance are derived from the relationship between reported charitable contributions and reported income from wages and salary as compared to alternative reported income sources such as self-employment, farm and other small business income. Assuming that the source of one's income is unrelated to one's charitable inclinations and that the ratio of true income to taxable income does not vary by income source, any difference in the relationship between charitable contributions and the source of income can be attributed to (relative) underreporting by the individual. We find that the implied amount of noncompliance is significant and that it varies by source of income, as well as between positive and negative values of each type of income. Copyright 2007 The Author(s). Journal compilation Royal Economic Society 2007."] ["No government can announce a tax system and then rely on taxpayers' sense of duty to remit what is owed. Some dutiful people will undoubtedly pay what they owe, but many others will not. Over time the ranks of the dutiful will shrink, as they see how they are being taken advantage of by the others. Thus, paying taxes must be made a legal responsibility of citizens, with penalties attendant on noncompliance. But even in the face of those penalties, substantial tax evasion exists. Tax evasion is widespread, always has been, and probably always will be. This essay reviews what is known about the magnitude, nature, and determinants of tax evasion, with an emphasis on the U.S. income tax. It then places this information into a conceptual context, examining various models and theories, and considers policy implications."] ['In this paper, I use data from an exceptionally detailed survey of attitudes toward taxation in the United States to investigate the relative importance of one particular misconception\xe2\x80\x94that high\xe2\x80\x93income people would pay more tax under an apparently regressive reform, mostly because many people believe that the distribution of the burden of the existing income tax is regressive\xe2\x80\x94in explaining public support for a fl at tax and a retail sales tax. I find that this policy misconception is strongly associated with support for replacing the existing income tax with either of these two alternatives. A similar misconception about the distributional impact of the estate tax explains some of the support for eliminating that tax.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['I view part of my responsibility as to report on fiscal developments in the United States. Any report from the States would have to note that the past several weeks have been tumultuous, what with the nomination and hearings regarding a new Chief Justice of the Supreme Court and the devastating Hurricane Katrina. On the fiscal front, we are awaiting the report of the President\xe2\x80\x99s Advisory Panel on Federal Tax Reform, which is expected to outline one or more income tax reform options and at least one consumption tax alternative as a replacement for the income tax. I will try here to touch on all of these developments. I shall begin with the nomination of John Roberts to be the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. You may be interested to know that Roberts wrote his undergraduate thesis at Harvard about British politics, about the fate, a century ago, of the British Liberal Party which, after winning a landslide victory in 1906, never won another general election. His thesis was that politicians, and judges for that matter, should be wary of the assumption that the future will be little more than an extension of things as they are today.'] ['Are individuals who trust others better off than those who do not? Do trustworthy people prosper more than untrustworthy ones? We formulate and, using data from the World Values Survey, empirically evaluate predictions about the relationship between an individual\xe2\x80\x99s income and his self-reported attitudes toward trust and trustworthiness, and predictions about how these relationships are mediated by the average level of trust and trustworthiness in the country. On average, exhibiting trust has a positive, while exhibiting trustworthiness has a negative impact on income. More strikingly, the payoff to being trustworthy increases with the average level of trust in a given country.'] ['This paper examines corporate tax evasion in the context of the contractual relationship between the shareholders of a firm and a tax manager who possesses private information regarding the extent of legally permissible reductions in taxable income, and who may also undertake illegal tax evasion. Using a costly state falsification framework, we characterize formally the optimal incentive compensation contract for the tax manager and, in particular, how the form of that contract changes in response to alternative enforcement policies imposed by the taxing authority. The optimal contract may adjust to offset, at least partially, the effect of sanctions against illegal evasion, and we find a new and policy-relevant non-equivalence result: penalties imposed on the tax manager are more effective in reducing evasion than are those imposed on shareholders.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We model denial of death and its effect on economic behavior. Attempts to reduce death anxiety and the possibility of denial of mortality-relevant information interact with intertemporal choices and may lead to time-inconsistent behavior and other \xc2\x93behavioral\xc2\x94 phenomena. In the model, repression of signals of mortality leads to underconsumption for unsophisticated individuals, but forward-sophisticated individuals may over-consume in anticipation of future denial and may seek ways to commit to act according to one\xc2\x92s mortality prospects as currently perceived. We show that the mere possibility of engaging in this kind of denial leads to time-inconsistent but efficient behavior. Refusal to face up to the reality of death may help explain a wide range of empirical phenomena, including the underutilization of tax-advanced inter vivos gifts and inadequate purchase of life insurance.'] ['This article uses the variation in U.S. state income tax systems to examine what engenders tax complexity. An analysis of simple measures of the variation in complexity, based on the number of lines in the tax forms and the number of pages in the instruction booklets, reveals some intriguing patterns. States with more professional legislatures, as measured by the salaries paid, tend to have more complex tax systems, as do states with a less active voting population.'] ['The U.S. income tax has long been recognized as a hybrid of an income and consumption tax, with elements that do not fit naturally into either pure system. The precise nature of this hybrid has important policy implications for, among other things, understanding the impact of moving closer to a pure consumption tax regime. In this paper, we examine the nature of the U.S. income tax by calculating the revenue and distributional implications of switching from the current system to one form of consumption tax, a modified cash flow tax. Although earlier work had suggested that in 1983 such a switch would have cost little or no revenue at all, we calculate that in 1995 this switch would have cost $108.1 billion in tax revenues, suggesting that the U.S. income tax does impose some positive tax on capital income. The net gains from such a switch have a U-shaped pattern, with those in the lowest and highest deciles of labor income receiving the largest proportional gains, although those in the highest decile would have by far the largest absolute gains.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper offers an economics perspective on tax evasion and abusive avoidance done by corporations. It first reviews what is known about the extent and nature of corporate tax noncompliance and the resources devoted to enforcement. It then addresses the supply side of aggressive corporate tax planning\xe2\x80\x94the industrial organization of the tax shelter industry\xe2\x80\x94as well as the demand for corporate tax evasion and abusive avoidance, focusing on how the standard Allingham\xe2\x80\x93Sandmo approach to tax evasion needs to be modified when applied to public corporations. It then discusses the implications of a supply\xe2\x80\x93and\xe2\x80\x93demand approach for the analysis of the incidence and efficiency cost of corporate income taxation, and the very justification for a separate tax on corporation income. Along the way it addresses policy proposals aimed at increased disclosure of corporate tax activities to both the IRS and to the public.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Many households received income tax rebates in 2001 of $300 or $600. These rebates represented advance payments of the tax cut from the new 10 percent tax bracket. Based on a survey of a representative sample of households, this paper finds that only 22 percent of households receiving the rebate would spent it. Instead, they would either save it or use it to pay off debt. This very low rate of spending represents a striking break with past behavior, which would have suggested a much higher rate of spending. The low spending rate implies that the tax rebate provided a very limited stimulus to aggregate demand.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper offers an overview of the issues raised by disclosure of corporate tax return information by providing current and historical perspectives from the fields of accounting, economics, and law. It reaches a number of conclusions. First, we are concerned that disclosure of the entire corporate tax return could cause companies to dilute the information content of these returns, hampering tax enforcement, and might, even in diluted form, reveal proprietary information that could provide a competitive advantage to those companies that are not required to make such a disclosure. For this reason we do not support full disclosure. The case for considering limited public disclosure of corporate tax return information\xe2\x80\x94revealing a small number of bottom\xe2\x80\x93line items or an expanded reconciliation between tax and book concepts of income\xe2\x80\x94rests on the fact that it would contribute to the transparency of the tax system by clarifying the tax payments of corporations in and of themselves, relative to other corporations, and relative to the income they report on their financial statements. The greater transparency could have several beneficial effects. First, it could put pressure on legislators to improve the tax system. Second, it could induce corporations to resist aggressive tax reduction strategies if they fear that disclosure of their low tax payments would trigger a negative consumer response; whether it would provoke negative investor response is less clear, as more transparency could conceivably induce a race to the bottom of low tax liability. Finally, it could contribute to better functioning of financial markets if it sheds new light on the information presented in financial statements. We find the case for limited disclosure to be compelling enough that we look forward to the next step of considering the best form of disclosure and the details of its implementation.'] [' This paper examines data from U.S. federal tax returns to shed light on whether the timing of death is responsive to its tax consequences. We investigate the temporal pattern of deaths around the time of changes in the estate-tax system periods when living longer, or dying sooner, could significantly affect estate-tax liability. We find some evidence that there is a small death elasticity, although we cannot rule out that what we have uncovered is ex post doctoring of the reported date of death. \xc2\xa9 2003 President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['One recurring issue in the debate over the estate tax is its impact on the non-profit sector. With the top marginal rate of federal estate tax currently at 49 percent, abolishing the tax would approximately double the price of a charitable bequest relative to an ordinary bequest for the wealthiest estates. It would also, however, raise the after-tax wealth of decedents, so the ultimate impact of any particular policy change depends in part on the relative sizes of the price and wealth elasticities. This paper estimates the impact of taxes on charitable bequests using an econometric framework that exploits the fact that federal and state tax rates on estates and inheritances have changed over time in different ways across states and real wealth levels. The effect of federal and state inheritance and estate taxes on charitable bequests is estimated using pooled cross-sectional data spanning several decades information from federal estate tax returns. Under several different specifications, we find evidence that the incentives for charitable giving present in state and federal estate and inheritance taxes have a strong positive effect on charitable bequests. Our estimates that rely on differences in the time path of state and federal tax rates across groups provide a more credible source of identification than the previous literature of a large and significant price elasticity of charitable bequests.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract provided'] [' In this essay we review the evidence from marketing research about price presentation of consumer products and discuss how these lessons have been applied--consciously or unconsciously--in the design of the U.S. tax system. Our perspective is that, in most situations, the designers of the tax system attempt to minimize the perceived burden of any given amount of tax collections. We allow, though, that in certain situations an additional goal is to maximize the perceived burden of others. We also investigate how, when the objective is to encourage a particular activity, price presentation may enhance the achievement of that goal for a given amount of tax subsidy. We conclude by addressing the ethical and normative implications of price presentation in the tax system. Copyright 2003 by Kluwer Academic Publishers'] ['The strength of the behavioral response to a tax rate change depends on the environment individuals operate in, and may be manipulated by instruments controlled by the government. We first derive a measure of the social benefit to affecting this elasticity. The paper then examines this effect in the solution to the optimal income taxation problem when such an instrument is available, first in a general model and then in an example when the government chooses the income tax base.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper explores one part of a 1994 Minnesota Department of Revenue field experiment designed to study the effectiveness of alternative enforcement strategies. Two letters containing different normative appeals were sent to two large groups of taxpayers; a control group received no letter. The impact of the letters on voluntary compliance is measured by comparing the change (for tax years 1994-93) in reported income and in taxes paid for treated versus control taxpayers (a difference-in-difference approach). We find little evidence of an overall treatment effect. However, the letters do appear to impact the compliance behavior of some groups of taxpayers.'] [' This paper generalizes the standard model of how taxes affect the labor-leisure choice by allowing individuals to change both their labor supply and avoidance effort in response to tax changes. Doing so reveals that the income and substitution effect of taxes depend on both preferences and the avoidance technology. Econometric analysis will not in general allow one to separately identify the two influences, unless one can specify observable determinants of the cost of avoidance. The effective marginal tax rate on working must be modified by the addition of an avoidance-facilitating effect, which measures how the cost of avoidance changes with higher income. This model provides a conceptual structure for evaluating to what extent, and in what situations, the opportunities for tax avoidance mitigate the real substitution response to taxation. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 2001'] ['In this paper, we evaluate and critique ten principal claims made in recent debates on the estate tax, distinguishing five types of statements: facts, rhetoric, value judgments, economic reasoning, and informed speculation. Economics cannot fully resolve the debate because economic knowledge is inconclusive and because value judgments help determine optimal choices. Nevertheless, economic analysis can contribute substantially to informing these debates and we show that many of the claims on both sides are incorrect or incomplete, given what is known.'] ['This paper seeks to clarify the extent to which the rule for providing public goods ought to correct for the distortionary cost of raising funds. We argue that, in evaluating public projects, the marginal cost of funds (MCF) concept must be supplemented by a symmetrical concept, which we label the marginal benefit of public projects, or MBP, which indicates the value to individuals of the dollars spent. Each of these concepts can be decomposed into two separate components, one reflecting efficiency and the other characterizing the distributional impact of the project itself or its financing. We conclude that efficiency of the financing cannot be ignored, that distributional considerations are also relevant, and that the availability and optimality of tax instruments is critical for evaluating the appropriateness of proceeding with a public good-cum financing project. However, one can construct special cases, as in Kaplow (1996), where the simple cost-benefit criterion applies.'] ["In 1995 a group of 1724 randomly selected Minnesota taxpayers was informed by letter that the returns they were about to file would be 'closely examined'. Compared to a control group that did not receive this letter, low and middle-income taxpayers in the treatment group on average increased tax payments compared to the previous year, which we interpret as indicating the presence of noncompliance. The effect was much stronger for those with more opportunity to evade; in fact, the difference in differences is not statistically significant for those who do not have self-employment or farm income, and do not pay estimated tax. Surprisingly, however, the reported tax liability of the high income treatment group fell sharply relative to the control group.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['Political debate over the estate tax has been growing; this article provides an overview of estate and gift taxes, examines equity and incidence issues and the efficiency of transfer taxes, and discusses administrative aspects of the estate and gift tax.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper examines the 1989\xe2\x80\x931993 publicly available financial reports of 46 U.S.-based multinationals to estimate the revenue implications of implementing a U.S. federal formula apportionment system. Ignoring behavioral responses, we estimate shifting to an equal-weighted, three-factor formula would have increased their U.S. tax liabilities by 38 percent, with an 81 percent increase for oil and gas firms. We find the firms report a lower percentage of their worldwide profits as American profits than their American share of assets, sales, or payroll. The results may be attributed to more profitable foreign operations, tax-motivated income shifting, or measurement error. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 1998'] [' The income of Puerto Rican affiliates of U.S. corporations is essentially untaxed by either Puerto Rico or the United States. This lowers the tax penalty on investment there, and also makes it attractive to shift reported taxable income from the U.S. parent corporation to the Puerto Rican affiliate. This paper investigates these two interrelated impacts of taxation by developing a structural econometric model of the joint decisions regarding investment and income shifting, and estimating the model using firm-level data on the activity U.S. corporations in Puerto Rico. The results suggest that the income shifting advantages are the predominant reason for U.S. investment in Puerto Rico. \xc2\xa9 1998 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['In the past year, the IRS has succeeded in attracting the attention of another group of folks interested in taxation-politicians-and out of that attention is likely to come a bill to restructure its operations. Although I like some of the directions the legislation takes, such as institutionalizing a concern for the enforceability and compliance costs of new legislation before it becomes law, other directions-such as shifting the burden of proof- trouble me, and what follows is my attempt to articulate these concerns: some ruminations about voluntary compliance, voluntary taxes, and social capital.'] ['Because the response of taxable income to the income tax rate captures all of the responses to taxation, it holds the promise of more accurately summarizing the marginal efficiency cost of taxation than a narrower measure of taxpayer response such as the labor supply elasticity. The promise does, though, come with problems and caveats. This paper reviews the key issues in empirically measuring the taxable income elasticity and in using it to evaluate tax reform. I stress the idea that the taxable income elasticity is a matter of government policy, rather than an immutable parameter, and note the importance of looking for revenue offsets in other tax bases and other time periods.'] [" In tax year 1988, delaying filing income tax returns cost the 73.2 million taxpayers claiming refunds nearly one billion dollars of interest. 'Impatient' tax filers, who mail in their tax payments before the filing deadline, passed up $46 million in interest. The authors develop a model of tax filing based on stochastic opportunity cost and then investigate whether filing times are consistent with that model. They find some evidence for this because, ceteris paribus, higher refunds are associated with earlier filing and complex returns are associated with later filing, as are higher incomes (as a proxy for higher costs of time). Coauthors are Charles Christian, Rebecca London, and Jonathan A. Parker. Copyright 1997 by Oxford University Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The Tax Reform Act of 1986 constituted the most sweeping postwar change in the U.S. federal income tax. This paper considers what the Act accomplished and its implications for future tax policy. After a review of the Act itself, and why it happened, we consider the evidence of the Act's impact on economic activity and how this evidence squares with initial predictions. Where appropriate, we draw out how consideration of the impact of TRA86 has contributed to the development of the methodology of economic analysis. We conclude with an overall evaluation of the Act."] ["Lists the 10 most frequently cited articles in the National Tax Journal's first 50 years. The often cited articles focus on state and local finance issues and the responsiveness of state revenue to economic growth. Also provides an index to volumes"] ["The standard analysis of the optimal international tax policy of a small country typically assumes that the country either imports or exports capital, but does not do both. This paper considers the situation in which a small country both exports and imports capital and can alter its tax on one or the other, but not both. In each case, a 'seesaw' relationship is identified, in which the optimal tax on the income from capital exports (imports) is inversely related to the given tax rate on income from capital imports (exports). The standard results for optimal taxation of capital exports and imports are shown to be special cases of the more general seesaw principle.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['It is argued that taxation causes deadweight losses--from substitution, evasion, and avoidance activities--and direct, administrative and compliance, costs. Some of these social costs tend to be discontinuous and/or nonconvex. Because most models of taxation ignore some components of the social costs of taxation, their conclusions cannot be considered all-encompassing. An alternative approach to policy evaluation is to rely on a marginal efficiency cost of funds rule that can indicate appropriate directions of reforms. The paper discusses the merits, applicability, and limitation of this rule, as well as its relationship to other concepts.'] ['A survey of 1,329 of the largest corporations m the United States reveals that the average annual cost of compliance with federal and subfederal corporation income taxes is approximately $1.565 million, implying an aggregate annual compliance cost of over $2 billion. As a fraction of revenue raised, these compliance costs are lower than estimates that have been made for the individual income tax. The cost-to-revenue ratio is higher for state corporate tax systems than it is for the federal tax system, presumably reflecting the nonuniformity of state tax systems There is near unanimity among senior corporate tax officers that the Tax Reform Act of 1986 added complexity to the tax system, resulting in a combination of higher compliance costs and less accurate information transmission. They point to, in particular, the alternative minimum tax, inventory capitalization rules, and the taxation of foreign-source income as growing sources of complexity.'] ["This paper explores the normative theory of international taxation by recasting it in parallel with the theory of international trade. It first sets out a definition of 'free trade taxation,' first in the global context and then in the unilateral context. It then evaluates against this standard the existing international tax regime and the U.S. international tax policy, and characterizes which aspects of tax policy are free trade and which are protectionist, differentiating the 'predatory protectionism' of tax havens and the 'ownership protectionism' of tax policies that favor domestically- resident multinational corporations.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['Presents results of a tax policy opinion survey sent out on April 28, 1994 to the 1309 American and Canadian individual members of the National Tax Association. Compares results to those found in a similar study conducted in 1934 by the Tax Policy League. Analyzes the results of the 1994 study by investigating the differences in response patterns by occupation, level of education, and age. Examines differences in opinion between public finance specialists and economists as a whole, and between the opinions of each of these groups and the opinions of politicians.'] ["In 1992, the income tax withholding tables were adjusted so that withholding was reduced. A typical worker received an extra $28.80 in take-home pay per month in March through December 1992, to be offset by a lower tax refund in 1993. The change in withholding amounted to 0.5 percent of GDP. President Bush, who proposed this change in his State of the Union address, intended that it provide a temporary stimulus to demand. But the policy change involved only the timing of income, so, under the life-cycle/permanent-income model, it would be predicted to have a negligible effect on consumption and aggregate demand. This paper reports consumers' responses to the change in withholding. The results are based on a survey taken shortly after it went into effect. Forty-three percent of consumers report spending the extra take-home pay--substantially more than the zero percent predicted by the standard models, but substantially less than the one hundred percent upon which the policy was predicated. The decision to save the income is not explained by expected income growth. Therefore, while behavior of many households is not fully consistent with the life-cycle/permanent-income model, liquidity constraints do not appear to account for this behavior.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We investigate the optimal rate structure of an income tax system that is constrained to have only two brackets, plus a demogrant. We find that, in a two-class economy, Pareto efficient tax schedules feature at least one marginal tax rate equal to zero, and that the marginal tax rate may be increasing or declining. We next use numerical optimization techniques to study the optimal structure of such a tax system in a multi-person model that is a stylized version of an actual economy. We discover that in all cases the tax rate in the second (higher) bracket is less than the tax rate that applies to the first bracket but that progressivity, in the sense of a uniformly rising average tax rate, generally obtains. Compared to the optimal one-bracket (linear) tax system, both the highest and lowest income individuals are better off, while a middle range of taxpayers is worse off.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper presents a simple two-country model of the role of taxation in capital flows between developed countries ("The North") and developing countries ("The South"). The Southern country is assumed to be unable to enforce a tax on its residents\' foreign-source income, and the Northern country chooses not to impose a withholding tax on portfolio income earned in its country. The world equilibrium in the model is characterized by excessive (by the standard of global efficiency and Southern welfare) flows of capital across borders, and insufficient investment located in the South. National income of the South could, under certain conditions, be improved if the North would impose a withholding tax on portfolio income that leaves the country, even though the South sacrifices tax revenue to the North. A Southern tax on foreign-source income may dominate this, depending on the resource cost of enforcing such a tax.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["In this paper we develop some simple models of optimal tax and tariff policy in the presence of global corporations that operate in an imperfectly competitive environment. The models emphasize two important differences in the practical application of tax and tariff policy - tax, but not tariff, policy can apply to offshore output and tariff, but not tax, policy can be industry-specific. Recognizing the multinationals' production decisions are endogenous to the tax and tariff policies they face, we investigate optimal tax or subsidy policies for domestically owned firms and optimal trade policy.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["At the end of 1983 Gallup polls showed that 52 percent of Americans thought that the probability of a world war in the next 10 years was 50% or higher; by 1989 the percentage had dropped to 29%. Fear of war of this pervasiveness is bound to have an effect on decisions about present versus uncertain future consumption. This paper investigates the cross-sectional relationship between saving and fear of war using responses to telephone surveys conducted during April and October of 1990. The analysis shows that an individual's professed level of fear about the likelihood of nuclear war was significantly negatively related to the probability of being a saver rather than a dissaver, to changes in actual saving, and to saving plans relative to actual savings. Fear of war had an independent effect controlling for many demographic, economic and psychological characteristics. These results are broadly consistent with other evidence on the relationship between aggregate saving and fear of war over time and across countries.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Attempts to answer whether or not TRA'86 simplified or complicated taxes by comparing data from surveys of compliance costs conducted in 1982 and 1989. Concludes that tax reform did not reverse the growth in compliance costs in the 1980's."] ['This paper attempts to assess whether the Tax Reform Act of 1986 simplified tax matters significantly, or at all. I conclude that, despite a few scattered signs that tax-related financial planning has declined, the compliance cost of the income tax system is probably higher now than it was in the early 1980s. This suggests that the Tax Reform Act achieved little, if any, simplification in the tax system, although it remains possible that the Act dampened what would have been an even greater increase in compliance cost.'] ['The response of the economy to two major -- although in important respects offsetting -- tax reforms has been much smaller than ardent supply-side revolutionaries expected, thus suggesting that a reassessment of the grounds for revolt is in order. This paper offers such a reassessment by first discussing how the evidence from the tax reforms of 1981 and 1986 reflects on our understanding of the response to taxation -- with particular reference to savings and capital gains realizations. I then reconstruct a 1992 view about how taxes affect behavior. A unifying theme is that the tax system does much more than alter the relative prices of real variables -- it also provides incentives to misreport income, restructure financial claims, time transactions, change the legal form of organization, and so on. For this reason, observed low tax elasticities of real variables may be due to either low elasticities of substitution or the fact that tax policy changes opportunity sets in complex ways. Disentangling these explanations requires an emphasis on the transaction-based nature of the tax system and the administration and enforcement of tax laws.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" The tax sensitivity of foreign direct investment (FDI) has important policy implications. If FDI is not responsive to taxation, then it may be an appropriate target for taxation by the host country. This question is examined for Mexico by estimating the response of FDI from retained earnings and transfers from abroad to the tax regimes in Mexico and the home country, the credit status of multinationals, country risk factors, and regulatory and trade regimes in Mexico. FDI in Mexico is found to be sensitive to the tax regimes in Mexico and the United States, the credit status of multinationals, country credit ratings, and the regulatory environment. Thus Mexico's current policies to dismantle regulations and employ a tax system competitive with the United States are expected to have salutary effects on FDI in Mexico. Copyright 1991 by Oxford University Press."] [' In this paper, the authors propose a method to identify commodity-tax changes that will be favored by all individuals who can agree on certain weak assumptions with regard to the social-welfare function. The method is based on an extension of the criterion of second-degree stochastic dominance and is illustrated using data from Israel. Copyright 1991 by American Economic Association.'] ['The theory of optimal taxation has , for the pas two decades , been the reigning normative approach of taxation. This paper argues that , in its current state, optimal tax theory is incomplete as a guide to action concerning many critical issues in tax policy. It is incomplete because it has not yet come to terms with taxation as a system of coercively collecting revenues from individuals who will tend to resist. The coercive nature of collection taxes implies that the resource cost of implementing a tax system have been and will continue to be a critical determinant of appropriate tax policy. The paper first presents the three cornerstone propositions of optimal tax theory, and then it discusses the influence of these propositions on recent tax policy developments. It concludes by sketching an alternative to optimal taxation, called the theory of optimal tax systems, which embraces the insights of optimal taxation but also considers the technology of raising taxes and the constraints placed upon tax policy by that technology. The optimal tax systems perspective is shown to shed light on the choice of tax instruments, the problem of tax evasion, and the appropriate tax treatment of capital income.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper demonstrates that, across nineteen OECD countries for 1981-84, a survey-based measure of the perceived likelihood of nuclear war is negatively correlated with the rate of net private saving, holding other determinants of saving constant. The estimates indicate that a 10 percent increase in the fraction of the population that believes a world war is likely is associated with a decline of 4.1 percentage points in the net private saving rate. This finding is consistent with other evidence based on U.S. aggregate time series and cross-individual data suggesting that fear of nuclear war decreases savings. Copyright 1990 by Oxford University Press.'] ["This article provides estimates of the probable saving in the resource cost of complying with the tax law that would result from simplifying the individual Abstract income tax law. These estimates are based on an econometric analysis of the tax-filing behavior in 1982 of a sample of Minnesota taxpayers. A simple model of tax-compliance behavior based on utility maximization is first presented in order to suggest the important determinants of compliance behavior. The empirical model treats the discrete choices of whether to itemize deductions and whether to hire professional tax advice, and the choice of how much time and money to spend, conditional on the discrete choices made. Simulations based on the econometric results suggest that significant resource saving could be expected from eliminating the system of itemized deductions, although no significant saving from changing to a single-rate tax structure can be confidently predicted. Results suggest that the Tax Reform Act of 1986 will, in the long run, decrease the use ofprofessional tax assistance, but its net effect on the use of taxpayer's own time is unclear."] [' This paper uses data from tax returns that have been subject to intensive audits to confront the quantitative importance of misreporting for the estimated tax responsiveness of charitable contributions. It concludes that the tax responsiveness of charitable giving that has been detected using tax return data cannot be ascribed to the tax responsiveness of overstating actual giving. In fact, overstatement is apparently less price responsive than actual giving, implying that the responsiveness of actual giving is higher than is suggested by studying reported contributions. Copyright 1989 by MIT Press.'] ['The resource cost of operating the income tax system is large, totaling as much as seven to eight percent of revenue raised. One source of this cost is the system of itemized deductions, which can require extensive record keeping and calculation. This paper estimates the resource cost of itemizing deductions. In contrast to previous studies of compliance cost which rely an survey evidence, we infer this evidence from data reported on tax returns which suggest that there exists taxpayers who would save money by itemizing but who choose not to. We find that in 1982 the private cost of itemizing totaled $1.44 billon, or $43 per itemizing taxpayer. The compliance cost dissuaded from itemizing aver 650,000 taxpayers who would have thereby saved taxes, causing an extra tax liability of nearly $200 million. Increasing the standard deduction by $1,000 would save $100 million in resources that would otherwise have been devoted to itemizing.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['For most parameter values, increased randomness about how much taxable income an auditor would assess leads to higher reported income and more revenue, When reducing randomness is costly, optimality requires some randomness in assessed taxable Income. Even if reducing randomness g costless, taxpayers may prefer some randomness when the increased revenue can be rebated, so that the government a revenue stays fixed. These results do not rely on the presence of a distortion in labor supply.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Attempts to determine how responsive capital gains realizations are to tax rates.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The condition that characterizes the optimal size of a tax-collection agency is der ived and then given a simple interpretation in terms of excess burden This paper clarifies an earlier finding of A. Sandmo (1981) which s uggests that the optimal degree of enforcement is higher than a simpl e cost-benefit calculation would indicate. The appropriate condition is that, at the margin, the resource cost of increasing enforcement s hould equal the saving of excess burden due to the decline in exposur e to risk. The increased revenue gained from stricter enforcement doe s not enter the expression because it merely represents a transfer am ong the economy's identical agents. Copyright 1987 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics."] ["The hypothesis of this article is that the performance and, in particular, the rate of saving in the postwar U.S. economy has been influenced by the changes in the public perception of the threat of a catastrophic nuclear war. An increased threat shortens the expected horizon of individuals, and thus reduces their willingness to postpone present consumption in favor of investment. The hypothesis is tested by expanding a standard savings function estimation technique to include a measure of the perceived threat of nuclear war. Several alternative measures of the perceived threat are considered, based either on the setting of the \xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xc5\x93doomsday\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac clock published monthly in Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, which reflects the editors' judgement about the likelihood of a nuclear conflict, or on an index of the extent of press coverage of nuclear war issues. The tests all support a large and statistically significant impact of the threat of nuclear war on the rate of private saving. These tests are not viewed as conclusive evidence in favor of the economic impact of the perceived threat of nuclear war. Nevertheless, this research suggests that economists may have been overlooking an important source of influence in the postwar, postnuclear U.S. economy. Conceivably, it could affect not only the private savings rate but also other economic variables such as the level of investment in human capital, the level of asset prices, the term structure of interest rates, and the rate of inflation."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In the United States, local government expenditures are heavily subsidized through a variety of sources. This paper explores theoretically and then simulates empirically the effects of eliminating either of two federal subsidies encouraging local government expenditures: (1) income tax deductibility of local tax payments, and (2) the tax exempt status of interest on municipal bonds.We find that eliminating the deductibility of local taxes raises the utility of all income groups, and of home owners as well as of renters.Making interest on municipal bonds taxable, however, substantially hurts the very rich, who lose a tax shelter, and may hurt the very poor, who pay more for municipal services. While most people gain, the net gain is very small.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This article develops a simulation model of a growing economy where house-holds make life cycle consumption decisions and also choose whether to own or rent housing. A major feature of the model is that newly formed households face a down-payment constraint which may limit the amount of housing they purchase or induce them to rent rather than buy housing. More generally, the constraint may alter the desired path of wealth accumulation. The model is used to simulate the effects of tax policy changes on the steady-state equilibrium, including its capital intensity, its mix of housing and nonhousing capital, and the relative proportion of owned and rental housing.'] [" Owner-occupied housing is said to be favored in the tax code because the return on owner's equity is not taxed and mortgage interest and property taxes can be deducted in the computation of one's income tax base. The special tax treatment reduces the user cost of capital for owner-occupied housing.The issue treated in this paper is the measurement of the tax rate to be employed in the user cost calculations. It is argued that different tax rates are appropriate for the tenure choice and quantity-demanded decisions, and that these values depend on the detailed tax position of the household and the method of finance. Average 1977 tax rates for household in different income ranges are calculated using the NBER TAXSIM microeconomic data file on individual tax returns. Copyright American Real Estate and Urban Economics Association."] ['The purpose of the research reported here was to see whether the accumu-lated evidence since 1979 is consistent with the hypothesis that the capital gains tax cuts in the Revenue Act of 1978 caused an increased volume of stock transactions. Transactions volume on the New York Stock Exchange, American Stock Exchange, and over-the-counter markets has risen substantially since the beginning of 1979. Average daily volumefor the first five months of 1981 on all markets was more than three times higher than it was from 1972 through 1977. A substantial amount of this increased volume can be associated with the capital gains tax cut. It is difficult to disentangle any possible effect of the stock price level on volume from the effect of the tax reduction. When both factors are introduced as explanatory variables, the association between the tax cut and increased transactions volume remains strongfor the New York Stock Exchange, but is not supported for the American Stock Exchange. For over-the-counter transactions, the evidence is consistent with a gradually increasing volume of transactions associated with the tax reduction, but not a constant increase.'] ['This study provides the first econometric analysis of the effect of taxation on the realization of capital gains. The analysis thus extends and complements the earlier study by Feldstein and Yitzhaki [1978] of the effect of taxation on the selling of corporate stock. The present analysis, using a large, new body of data obtained from individual tax returns, supports the earlier finding that corporate stock sales are quite sensitive to tax rates and then shows that the effect on the realization of capital gains is even stronger.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Extending the traditional treatment of the corporate tax to an economy with a progressive personal tax fundamentally changes the analysis. While the corporate tax system (CTS) does increase the total tax rate on corporate source income for some investors, the exclusion of retained earnings implies that the CTS lowers the tax rate for high-income investors. Analyzing such an economy requires replacing the traditional "equal-yield" equilibrium condition with a more general portfolio balance model. In this model, introducing a CTS can actually increase the corporate share of the capital stock even though the relative tax rate on corporate income rises.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)']