 ['The last 25 years have seen the resurgence of a problem of long historical standing: banking crises. While the general presence of a "banking system safety net" has typically prevented these modern crises from turning into the kinds of banking panics observed historically, they are nonetheless events of great significance. Caprio and Klingebiel (1997) identify 86 separate episodes of large scale bank insolvency or worse that have occurred since 1974. And, many of these episodes are of staggering enormity. For example, in the early 1980s, Argentina and Chile spent amounts equaling 55% and 42% of their GDP, respectively, on banking system bailouts. And, current estimates are that, in Thailand today, 60-70% of all loans are non-performing.1 The frequency and severity of these crises makes it essential to pose four questions: what causes banking crises?; what can be done to prevent them or, at least, to mitigate their severity?; what are the macroeconomic consequences of banking crises, and of the large bailouts that are often associated with them?; what are the social costs associated with the occurrence of a banking crisis? and what social costs or benefits are derived by injecting resources into banking system bailouts? This paper is an attempt to address these questions.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["According to the logic of the Friedman rule, the opportunity cost of holding money faced by private agents should equal the social cost of creating additional fiat money. Thus nominal rates of interest should be zero. This logic has been shown to be correct in a number of contexts, with and without various distortions. In practice, however, economies that have confronted very low nominal rates of interest over extended periods have been viewed as performing very poorly rather than as performing very well. Examples include the U.S. during the Great Depression, or Japan during the last decade. Indeed economies experiencing low nominal interest rates have often suffered severe and long-lasting recessions. This observation suggests that the logic of the Friedman rule needs to be reassessed. We consider the possibility that low nominal rates of interest imply that fiat money is a good asset. As a result, agents are induced to hold an excessive amount of savings in the form of money, and a suboptimal amount of savings in other, more productive forms. Hence low nominal interest rates can lead to low rates of investment and, in an endogenous growth model, to low rates of real growth. This is a cost of following the Friedman rule. Benefits of following the Friedman rule include the possibility that banks will provide considerable liquidity, reducing the cost of transactions that require cash. With this trade-off, we describe conditions under which the Friedman rule is and is not optimal. Finally, our model predicts that excessively high rates of inflation, and nominal rates of interest, are detrimental to growth. This implication of the model, which is consistent with observation, in turn implies that there is a nominal rate of interest that maximizes an economy's real growth rate. We characterize this interest rate, and we describe when it is and is not optimal to drive the nominal rate of interest to its growth maximizing level."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper considers whether eliminating the stock of government debt outstanding would reduce welfare. It models an economy with three assets\xe2\x80\x94currency, government bonds, and storage, a transactions role for money, and a demand for liquidity and thus a role for banks. The Friedman rule is not optimal in this economy, so there is potentially a role for interest-bearing, risk-free government bonds. Because the government must raise enough revenue to meet its interest obligations on any bonds outstanding, the social value of government debt hinges on whether the benefits from greater portfolio diversification outweigh the costs associated with the necessary revenue-raising efforts. The paper shows that a positive stock of government debt is optimal only if interest payments on the debt are financed via money creation, agents are not too risk averse, there is a primary government budget deficit, and the economy is operating on the bad side of the Laffer curve. But under these conditions, welfare would be even higher if monetary policy were conducted to put the economy on the good side of the Laffer curve and there were no government bonds outstanding. Thus, there is little support for keeping a stock of interest-bearing, risk-free government debt outstanding.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['In this paper, we expand previous models with banks and money and explore the consequences of seasonals in the banking system. We find that, when bank failures occur, not all of them have associated large output losses and currency premiums exist. We show that the most important sources of seasonal fluctuations for the banking system are those related to the return on farming activities and the scrapping value of the initial investment. Finally, this model is consistent with the notion that the Treasury is more likely to accommodate the money market in periods where the liquidity needs are higher.'] ['There is now a substantial theoretical literature arguing that inflation impedes financial deepening. Furthermore, it has been hypothesized that the relationship is a nonlinear one, in that there is a threshold level of inflation below which inflation has a positive effect on financial depth, but above which the effect turns negative. Using a large cross-country sample, empirical support is found for the existence of such a threshold. The estimates indicate that the threshold level of inflation is generally between 3 and 6 percent a year, depending on the specific measure of financial depth that is used.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['We study a monetary, general equilibrium economy in which banks exist because they provide inter-temporal insurance to risk-averse depositors. A "banking crisis" is defined as a case in which banks exhaust their reserve assets. This may (but need not) be associated with liquidation of a storage asset. When such liquidation does occur, the result is a real resource loss to the economy and we label this a "costly banking crisis." There is a monetary authority whose only policy choice is the long-run, constant rate of growth of the money supply, and thus the rate of inflation. Under different model specifications, the banking industry is either a monopoly bank or a competitive banking industry. It is shown that the probability of a banking crisis may be higher either under competition or under monopoly. This is shown to depend on the rate of inflation.'] [' It is commonly argued that poorly designed banking system safety nets are largely to blame for the frequency and severity of modern banking crises. For example, \xe2\x80\x9cunderpriced\xe2\x80\x9d deposit insurance and/or low reserve requirements are often viewed as factors that encourage risk-taking by banks. In this paper, we study the effects of three policy variables: deposit insurance premia, reserve requirements and the way in which the costs of bank bailouts are financed. We show that when deposit insurance premia are low, the monetization of bank bailout costs may not be more inflationary than financing these costs out of general revenue. This is because, while monetizing the costs increases the inflation tax rate, higher levels of general taxation reduce savings, deposits, bank reserves, and the inflation tax base. Increasing the inflation tax rate obviously raises inflation, but so does an erosion of the inflation tax base. We also find that low deposit insurance premia or low reserve requirements may not be associated with a high rate of bank failure. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin/Heidelberg 2004'] ['We study dynamic economies in which agents may have incentives to hold both privately-issued (a.k.a. inside) and publicly-issued (a.k.a. outside) circulating liabilities as part of an equilibrium. Our analysis emphasizes spatial separation and limited communication as frictions that motivate monetary exchange. We isolate conditions under which a combination of inside and outside money does and does not allow the economy to achieve a first-best allocation of resources. We also study the extent to which the use of private circulating liabilities alone, or the use of public circulating liabilities alone, can address the frictions that lead to monetary exchange. We identify conditions under which both types of liabilities are essential to efficiency. However, even when these conditions are satisfied, we show that political economy considerations may lead to a prohibition against private circulating liabilities. Finally, we analyze the consequences of such a prohibition for the determinacy of equilibrium, and for endogenously arising volatility.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We study an economy in which intermediaries have incentives to issue circulating liabilities as part of an equilibrium. We show that, with arbitrarily small transactions costs, only the liabilities of intermediaries will circulate, and not those of other private sector agents. Therefore, our model connects intermediation activity with the issuance of payments media, a connection that has not been made in earlier literature. We also describe conditions under which equilibrium outcomes may be volatile when private liabilities circulate. Finally, we use our model to suggest a resolution of the "banknote underissue puzzle" of Cagan (1993).<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' We consider the question how "best" to maintain price-level stability in an open economy, and evaluate three possible policy choices: (a) a constant money growth rate rule; (b) a fixed exchange rate; and (c) a policy of explicit commitment to a price-level target. In each case we assume that policy is conducted by injecting reserves into or withdrawing reserves from the "banking system." In evaluating the three regimes, we adopt the criterion that the "best" policy should leave the least scope for indeterminacy and "excessive" economic volatility. In a steady-state equilibrium, the choice of regime is largely irrelevant; any steady-state equilibrium under one regime can be duplicated by an appropriate choice of the "control" variable under any other regime. However, we show that the "sets of equilibria" under the three regimes are dramatically different. When all countries follow the policy of fixing a constant rate of money growth, there are no equilibria displaying endogenously arising volatility and there is no indeterminacy of equilibrium. Under a regime of fixed exchange rates, indeterminacies and endogenously arising fluctuations are impossible if and only if the country with the low "reserve-to-deposit" ratio is charged with maintaining the fixed rate. Finally, when one country targets the time path of its price level, under very weak conditions, there will be indeterminacy of equilibrium and endogenously arising volatility driven by expectations. Copyright 2002 by the Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper undertakes a simple general equilibrium analysis of the consequences of deposit insurance programs, the way in which they are priced and the way in which they fund revenue shortfalls. We show that the central issue is how the government will make up any FDIC losses. Under one scheme for making up the losses, we show that FDIC policy is irrelevant: it does not matter what premium is charged, nor does it matter how big FDIC losses are. Under another scheme, all that matters is the magnitude of the losses. And there is no presumption that small losses are \xe2\x80\x9cgood.\xe2\x80\x9d We also show that multiple equilibria can be observed and Pareto ranked. Some economies may be \xe2\x80\x9ctrapped\xe2\x80\x9d in equilibria with inefficient financial systems. Our analysis provides counterexamples to the following propositions. (1) Actuarially fair pricing of deposit insurance is always desirable. (2) Implicit FDIC subsidization of banks through deposit insurance is always undesirable. (3) \xe2\x80\x9cLarge\xe2\x80\x9d FDIC losses are necessarily symptomatic of a poorly designed deposit insurance system.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In many countries, government-budget surpluses have led to a decline in the amount of federal government debt outstanding. This paper considers the consequences of this development for a central bank that conducts monetary policy through open market operations in treasury debt. A model is presented in which a treasury taxes, spends, and issues debt; a central bank conducts monetary policy through open market operations; and banks are intermediaries for all private savings. The model suggests potentially severe consequences from a shrinking stock of government debt in the absence of a change in the conduct of monetary policy. Specifically, the nominal interest rate and the inflation rate cannot be below their seigniorage-maximizing levels. In effect, a small stock of debt combined with restrictions on a central bank\xe2\x80\x99s portfolio can put the economy on the Pareto inferior side of the seigniorage Laffer curve, with an unnecessarily high inflation rate and nominal interest rate. Moreover, if the government also runs a primary budget deficit, equilibrium can fail to exist. The model presented can yield estimates of how much debt must be outstanding to avoid each situation. Discount-window lending is a feasible\xe2\x80\x94and desirable\xe2\x80\x94 alternative method for conducting monetary policy. It relaxes any restrictions on the attainable set of interest rates and inflation rates implied by a decline in the stock of government debt outstanding. Unless the economy is on the Pareto inferior side of the Laffer curve, welfare is higher when discount-window loans are made at market-determined interest rates.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Changes in the legal and technological environment in the U.S. have created the possibility of private banknote issue, or its electronic equivalent. We wish to understand the implications of this possibility for economic performance. Accordingly, we construct and analyze a dynamic general equilibrium model in which privately-issued liabilities may circulate, either by themselves, or alongside a stock of outside money. In each case we provide results on the existence and multiplicity of equilibria, and we characterize local dynamics in a neighborhood of a steady state. Our results support Friedman\'s (1960) idea that circulating private liabilities as associated with endogenous (or "excess") volatility. But implementing Friedman\'s (1960) advice-the government should ban private issuance of close currency substitutes-causes significant inefficiency in our model. And implementing the polar opposite advice of Hayek (1976) and Fama (1980)-that the government should withdraw from currency issuance altogether in the presence of circulating private liabilities-also is often constrained suboptimal in our economies. Instead, our economies have both public and private circulating liabilities as part of an optimal monetary arrangement.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper considers the implications for monetary policy of a decreasing demand for outside money. It finds that even perpetual declines in the demand for base money pose no threat to the traditional methods employed for conducting monetary policy. The effects of such reductions in the demand for central bank liabilities, however, do depend on how monetary policy is conducted. Four monetary policy regimes are analyzed. With a policy of nominal-interest-rate targeting, a secular decline in the volume of cash transactions unambiguously leads to accelerating inflation. A policy of maintaining a fixed composition of government liabilities leads to accelerating (decelerating) inflation if agents have sufficiently high (low) levels of risk aversion. Inflation targeting produces falling nominal and real interest rates, while a policy of fixing the rate of money growth can easily lead to indeterminacy and endogenous oscillation in interest rates. It is argued that a policy of fixing the composition of government liabilities has several advantages if it is known that agents are not too risk averse and that the asymptotic demand for base money is small. If this information is not known, then interest-rate or inflation targeting have an advantage because their consequences are not sensitive to such environmental features.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' An endogenous growth model is presented in which production uses a vector of capital inputs. Technologies for creating capital of different types vary by gestation period and productivity. Ownership of gestating capital must be "rolled over" in secondary capital markets in which transactions are costly. We study how reductions in transactions costs affect the equilibrium growth rate, the rate of return on saving, the volume of activity in secondary capital markets, and the term structure of asset yields. We give conditions under which reductions in transactions costs result in higher or lower growth rates. Copyright 2000 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] [' We consider issues concerning the design of a banking system "safety net" when both a deposit insurer and a lender of last resort are present. In our model both entities have a role to play. Moreover, issues related to deposit insurance pricing are relatively unimportant in this context, whereas issues related to discount window access and pricing are not. We discuss when and why (or why not) a lender of last resort should lend liberally but charge high rates of interest. And, we raise the possibility that discount window policy may enhance or reduce the scope for multiplicity of equilibria.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["The Suffolk Bank in Boston is well known as having been the clearinghouse for virtually all the banknotes that circulated in New England between 1836 and 1858. An examination of 19th century bank balance sheets shows that during and after the U.S. banking Panic of 1837, this private commercial bank also provided some services that today are provided by central banks. These include lending reserves to other banks (providing a discount window) and keeping the payments system operating. Because of Suffolk's activities, banks in New England fared better than banks elsewhere during the Panic of 1837. And after the panic, when much of the United States suffered a prolonged economic slowdown, New England fared better than the rest of the country, at least partly because of Suffolk\xe2\x80\x99s central bank-like activities."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["We consider an environment in which risk-neutral firms must obtain external finance. They have access to two kinds of linear, stochastic investment opportunities. For one, return realizations are costlessly observed by all agents. For the other, return realizations are costlessly observed only by the investing firm; however, they can be (privately) observed by outsiders who bear a fixed verification cost. Thus, the second investment opportunity is subject to a standard costly state verification (CSV) problem of the type considered by Townsend (1979), Gale and Hellwig (1985), or Williamson (1986, 1987). ; We examine the optimal allocations of investment between the two kinds of projects, as well as the optimal contract used to finance it. We show that the optimal contractual outcome can be supported by having firms issue appropriate (and determinate) quantities of debt and equity securities to outside investors. ; The optimal debt-equity ratio necessarily depends (in part) on the firm's asset structure. Investments in projects subject to CSV problems are associated (in a sense to be made precise) with the use of debt - as might be expected from the existing CSV literature. Investments in projects with publicly observable returns are associated with the use of external equity. ; We examine in detail the relationship between the optimal asset and liability structure of the firm. We also describe conditions under which an increase in the cost of state verification shifts the composition of investment towards projects with observable returns, and reduces the optimal debt-equity ratio. Interestingly, the optimal debt-equity ratio is also shown to depend on factors that are irrelevant to asset allocations. ; Finally, a large part of the interest in CSV environments has been due to the fact that they may result in equilibrium credit rationing. Our analysis has strong implications for the possibility of equilibrium credit rationing in more general CSV models.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['Empirical evidence suggest that real activity, the volume of bank lending activity, and the volume of trading in equity markets are strongly positively correlated. At the same time. inflation and the volume of financial market activity are strongly negatively correlated (in the long-run), as are inflation and the real rate of return on equity. Inflation anr real activity are also negatively correlated in the long-run, particularly for economies with relatively high rates of inflation. We present a monetary growth model in which banks and secundary capital markets play a crucial allocative function. We show that - at least under certain configurations of parameters - the predictions of the model are consistent with these and several other observations about finance, inflation and long-run real activity.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Many have argued that private provision of close currency substitutes may lead to large scale indeterminacies and excessive economic fluctuations. Others argue that money creation can be "left to the market." Adherents of this viewpoint often point to the Suffolk Banking System as an example of a well-functioning system of private money creation. We provide a framework for analyzing these notions, and for modeling the monetary consequences of the Suffolk System. This system resolves some, but not all indeterminacies. It also can raise steady state welfare, but may substantially enhance volatility. The model\'s predictions are consistent with historical evidence.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['An analysis of Madison\'s essay, "Money," and a presentation of a model giving rise to equilibria that mimic general observations about the consequences of government policies like the one Madison describes for limiting inflation.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["We consider a small open economy where domestic residents combine their own income with credit obtained either at home or abroad in order to finance capital investments. These investments are subject to a costly state verification (CSV) problem. In addition, lenders to domestic residents confront a binding reserve requirement. Under one technical condition, the presence of these credit market frictions leads to the existence of two steady state equilibria: one with a relatively high and one with a relatively low capital stock. The low-capital-stock steady state is a saddle, while the high-capital-stock steady state may be either a sink or a source, depending on the rate of domestic money creation, the world interest rate and the level of domestic reserve requirements. An increase in the rate of money creation, the world interest rate or the level of reserve requirements acts to raise (lower) the level of real activity in the high (low)-capital-stock steady state. At the same time, sufficiently large increases in the rate of money growth or the world interest rate can transform the high-capital-stock steady state from a sink to a source. Thus, while small increases in the rate of interest or the money growth rate may be conducive to higher long-run levels of real activity, excessive increases can induce a kind of ''crisis''. This finding accords well with an array of empirical evidence. Finally, the model delivers a set of prescriptions for what a small open economy can do to protect itself against a ''crisis'' induced by rising world interest rates.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['As noted by Gurley and Shaw, there is a typical pattern of economic development in which the evolution of the financial system is an essential aspect of the growth process. We focus on one component of this evolution: the increasing importance of equity markets as an economy grows. We develop a growth model where capital accumulation is financed externally through a combination of debt and equity. We illustrate why equity market activity might grow - often very rapidly - as an economy develops. We also illustrate why access to equity markets may not be needed in the early stages of economic development.'] ['Many claims have been made about the potential benefits, and the potential costs, of adopting a system of universal banking in the United States. We evaluate these claims using a model where there is a moral hazard problem between banks and \xe2\x80\x9cborrowers,\xe2\x80\x9d a moral hazard problem between banks and a deposit insurer, and a costly state verification problem. Under conditions we describe, allowing banks to take equity positions in firms strengthens their ability to extract surplus, and exacerbates problems of moral hazard. The incentives of universal banks to take equity positions will often be strongest when these problems are most severe.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' The authors study a one-sector growth model where capital investment is credit financed and there is an adverse selection problem in credit markets. The presence of adverse selection creates an indeterminacy of equilibrium. Many equilibria display permanent fluctuations characterized by transitions between Walrasian regimes and regimes of credit rationing. Cyclical contractions involve declines in real interest rates, increases in credit rationing, and withdrawals of savings from banks. For some configurations of parameters, all equilibria display cyclical fluctuations. The authors provide sufficient conditions for deterministic cycles consisting of m periods of expansion followed by n periods of contraction to exist. Copyright 1998 by American Economic Association.'] ['This paper considers three questions : (1) what is the role of financial markets in development, (2) why do some economies have such poorly developed financial markets, and (3) can government policy be used to promote financial market development?<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['A classic example of a privately created interbank payments system was operated by the Suffolk Bank of New England (1825\xe2\x80\x9358). Known as the Suffolk Banking System, it was the nation\xe2\x80\x99s first regionwide net-clearing system for bank notes. While it operated, notes of all New England banks circulated at par throughout the region. Some have concluded from this experience that unfettered competition in the provision of payments services can produce an efficient payments system. But another look at the history of the Suffolk Banking System questions this conclusion. The Suffolk Bank earned extraordinary profits, and note-clearing may have been a natural monopoly. There is no consensus in the literature about whether unfettered operation of markets with natural monopolies produces an efficient allocation of resources. ; Reprinted in Quarterly Review, Fall 2002 (v. 26. no. 4)<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['We consider a monetary growth model essentially identical to that of Diamond (1965) and Tirole (1985), except that we explicitly model credit markets, a credit market friction, and an allocative function for financial intermediaries. These changes yield substantially different results than those obtained in more standard models. In particular, if any monetary steady state equilibria exist, there are generally two of them; one of these has a low capital stock and output level, and it is necessarily a saddle. The other steady state has a high capital stock and output level; either it is necessarily a sink, or its stability properties depend on the rate of money creation. It follows that monetary equilibria can be indeterminate, and nonconvergence phenomena can be observed. Increases in the rate of money creation reduce the capital stock in the high-capital-stock steady state. If the high-capital-stock steady state is not a sink for all rates of money growth, then increases in the rate of money growth can induce a Hopf bifurcation. Hence dynamical equilibria can display damped oscillation as a steady state equilibrium is approached, and limit cycles can be observed as well. In addition, in the latter case, high enough rates of inflation induce the kinds of "crises" noted by Bruno and Easterly (1995): when inflation is too high there are no equilibrium paths approaching the high-activity steady state.'] [" This article presents a monetary growth model where spatial separation and limited communication create a role for banks. Monetary policy interacts with the financial system's liquidity provision to affect the existence, multiplicity, and dynamical properties of equilibria. Moderate levels of risk aversion and tight monetary policy can lead to multiple steady states. Dynamical equilibria can be indeterminate, with oscillatory paths. Thus financial market frictions are a source of indeterminacies and endogenous volatility. Under plausible conditions, tight monetary policy raises the nominal interest rate and inflation rate and reduces long-run output. Thus, a central bank's liquidity provision can promote growth. Copyright 1998 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited."] ['We consider the problem of an insurer who enters into a repeated relationship with a set of risk averse agents in the presence of ex post verification costs. The insurer wishes to minimize the expected cost of providing these agents a certain expected utility level. We characterize the optimal contract between the insurer and the insured agents. We then apply the analysis to the provision of deposit insurance. Our results suggest - in a deposit insurance context - that it may be optimal to utilize the discount window early on, and to make deposit insurance payments only later, or not at all.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["Does monetizing a deficit always result in a higher rate of inflation than bond financing the same deficit? T. J. Sargent and N. Wallace (1981) produced conditions under which the answer was negative ('unpleasant monetarist arithmetic'). Subsequent authors have challenged the empirical validity of these conditions. The authors develop a model similar to that of Sargent and Wallace and modify it to allow for financial intermediation. In the presence of reserve requirements, unpleasant arithmetic arises even when the real rate of growth exceeds the real return on bonds. Moreover, under empirically plausible restrictions, there exists a unique equilibrium; no Laffer curve considerations arise."] [' The authors consider a model where spatial separation, limited communication, and stochastic relocation create a role for banks and country-specific currencies. The same factors also permit a deviation from the law of one price. The authors examine how monetary policies influence real and nominal rates of exchange and real and nominal rates of interest under both fixed and flexible exchange rate regimes. They also demonstrate that both regimes are characterized by an indeterminacy of both the real and the nominal rate of exchange. Copyright 1997 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] [' Economic development is typically accompanied by migration from rural to urban employment. This migration is often associated with significant urban underemployment. Both factors are important in the development process. The authors consider a neoclassical growth model with rural-urban migration and urban underemployment, which arises from an adverse selection problem in labor markets. They demonstrate that rural-urban migration and underemployment can be a source of development traps and can give rise to a large set of periodic equilibria displaying undamped oscillation. Many such equilibria display long periods of uninterrupted growth, punctuated by brief but severe recessions. Copyright 1997 by the University of Chicago.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We consider a monetary growth model in which banks arise to provide liquidity. In addition, there is a government that issues not only money, but interest-bearing bonds; these bonds compete with capital in private portfolios. When the government fixes a constant growth rate for the money stock, we show that there can exist multiple nontrivial monetary steady states. One of these steady states is a saddle, while the other can be a sink. Paths approaching these steady states can display damped endogenous fluctuations, and development trap phenomena are common. Across different steady states, low capital stocks are associated with high nominal interest rates; the latter signal the comparative inefficiency of the financial system. Also, increases in the steady state inflation rate can easily reduce the steady state capital stock.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["This paper formulates a model of commodity money that circulates by tale, and applies it to a variety of situations, some of which seem to confirm, and others to contradict, `Gresham's Law'. We analyze how debasements could prompt decisions of citizens voluntarily to participate in recoinages that subjected them to seigniorage taxes."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Existing models of banking panics contain no role for monetary factors and fail to explain why some banking systems experienced panics while others did not. A monetary model is constructed, where seasonal variations in the demand for liquidity and credit play a critical role in generating banking panics. These panics occur when there are restrictions on the issue of currency in private banks, but they do not occur if banks are unrestricted. Empirical evidence from Canada and the United States for the period 1880-1910 is largely consistent with the predictions of the model.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We introduce an informational asymmetry into an otherwise standard monetary growth model and examine its implications for the determinacy of equilibrium, for endogenous economic volatility, and for the relationship between steady-state output and the rate of money growth. Some empirical evidence suggests that, for economies with low initial inflation rates, permanent increases in the money growth rate raise long-run output levels. This relationship is reversed for economies with high initial inflation rates. Our model predicts this pattern. Moreover, in economies with high enough rates of inflation, credit rationing emerges, monetary equilibria become indeterminate, and endogenous economic volatility arises. Copyright 1996 by Kluwer Academic Publishers'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The role of debt and equity changes over time and with the level of development. What are these changes, and why should they systematically occur across different countries and time periods? This article characterizes financial innovation as a dynamic process that both influences and is influenced by the development of the real sector. It focuses on the emergence and development of equity markets, using a model that allows for growth and for capital accumulation that is financed externally through a combination of debt and equity. As an economy develops, the aggregate ratio of debt to equity will generally fall; yet, debt and equity remain complementary sources for the financing of capital investments. The results suggest how various government policy actions might affect capital accumulation and equity market activity. Copyright 1996 by Oxford University Press.'] ['We investigate the function of liquid financial markets for the allocation of productive capital. We consider an economy where agents endogenously choose among capital production technologies with differing gestation periods. Longgestation capital investments must be "rolled-over" in secondary capital markets. The use of such investment technologies therefore requires the support of liquid financial markets. We investigate how changes in the liquidity of these markets (i.e., in the costs of transacting) affect (a) the choice of capital production technology, (b) per capita income and the per capita capital stock, (c) the level of financial market activity, (d) the real return on savings and (e) welfare in a steady state equilibrium. Improvements in financial market liquidity raise rates of return on savings, and favor the increased use of long gestation capital investments. However, such improvements may or may not lead to higher levels of real activity or steady state welfare. We describe conditions under which various outcomes occur.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Nonprofit, mutually owned insurance and banking organizations have significant market shares in the insurance and banking industries. A first step in a systematic study of these financial mutual is to examine the reasons for their formation. Doing so provides empirical support for the view that these mutual arose as an efficient means of addressing contracting challenges caused by aggregate uncertainties and moral hazard. A formal model with this property is presented. We argue that information asymmetries do more to explain the kinds of contracts offered by financial mutual than do agency problems between owners, managers, and customers. Article published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Financial Studies in its journal, The Review of Financial Studies.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" A model of self-selection in the labor market in the presence of private information is developed. The model is used to explain the correlation between the unemployment rate and the sectoral composition of employment first observed by D. M. Lilien (1982). The model also generates a (nonexploitable) Phillips curve and is consistent with observed correlations between hours and productivity. In addition, it is consistent with microeconomic evidence on the behavior of sectoral wage dispersions over the cycle and the absence of cyclicality associated with 'industry switching.' Copyright 1995 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The authors investigate ex ante efficient contracts in an environment in which implementation is costless. In this environment, standard debt contracts will typically not be optimal. Optimal contracts may involve defaults even in states in which the borrower is fully able to repay. The authors then examine the welfare costs of arbitrarily restricting the set of feasible contracts to standard debt contracts. When model parameters are calibrated to realistic values, the welfare loss from exogenously imposing this restriction is extremely small. Thus, if implementation costs are actually nontrivial (as seems likely), standard debt contracts will be (very close to) optimal. Copyright 1994 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Why did states agree to a U.S. Constitution that prohibits them from issuing their own money? This article argues that two common answers to this question\xe2\x80\x94a fear of inflation and a desire to control what money qualifies as legal tender\xe2\x80\x94do not fit the facts. The article proposes a better answer: a desire to form a viable monetary union that both eliminates the variability of exchange rates between various forms of money and avoids the seigniorage problem that otherwise occurs in a fixed exchange rate system. Supporting evidence is offered from three periods of U.S. history: the colonial period (1690\xe2\x80\x931776), the Revolutionary War (1776\xe2\x80\x9383), and the Confederation period (1783\xe2\x80\x9389). This article is adapted from a chapter prepared for a forthcoming book, Varieties of Monetary Reforms: Lessons and Experiences on the Road to Monetary Union, edited by Pierre Siklos, to be published by Kluwer Academic Publishers.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We consider credit rationing in an environment with adverse selection and costly state verification. The presence of costly state verification permits debt contracts to emerge under conditions that we specify. When debt contracts are observed, so is credit rationing. This rationing occurs even if it is possible for rationed borrowers to bid up expected returns to lenders and hence is voluntary. We also show how the adverse selection and costly state verification problems interact and investigate how improvements in information gathering technology impact on the extent of credit rationing.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Recent attempts to understand bank panics tend to emphasize informational asymmetries or the possibilities of multiple equilibria. Such approaches stand in contrast to historical research that emphasizes legal factors influencing the organization of the banking system. This paper constructs a model of a banking system operating under regulations similar to those in effect under the National Banking System and in which information is complete. In all other respect the model resembles that of Douglas W. Diamond and Philip Dybvig (1983). The results indicate that, given the regulatory environment, it would have been surprising if suspensions of convertibility had not recurred periodically. Copyright 1991 by Oxford University Press.'] [' An endogenous growth model with multiple assets is developed. Agents who face random future liquidity needs accumulate capital and a liquid, but unproductive, asset. The effects of introducing financial intermediation into this environment are considered. Conditions are provided under which the introduction of intermediaries shifts the composition of savings toward capital, causing intermediation to be growth promoting. In addition, intermediaries generally reduce socially unnecessary capital liquidation, again tending to promote growth. Copyright 1991 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] [" M. Friedman's (1960) proposal to pay interest on (required) reserves is considered in a setting that eliminates the indeterminacy of steady-state equilibrium discussed by T. J. Sargent and N. Wallace (1985). In an overlapping-generations model where the real rate of interest is technologically determined, the payment of interest on reserves results in a determinate, Pareto optimal steady-state equilibrium. However, interest payments on reserves reduce the steady-state welfare of all young agents and, for many economies, results in the existence of stationary sunspot equilibria. This is the case even if such equilibria cannot exist when reserves do not earn interest. Copyright 1991 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited."] [' A model of insurance markets analogous to that of Rothschild and Stiglitz (1976) is considered, with the additional feature that risk-neutral insurers face aggregate (undiversifiable) risk. In the presence of adverse selection and aggregate uncertainty and under a simple nondegeneracy condition on loss probabilities, the authors show that any equilibrium has the feature that some agents purchase participating policies (from mutual insurers) while others purchase nonparticipating policies (and, hence, do not share risk with their insurer). Specifically, agents with low loss probabilities signal their type by sharing aggregate risks with their insurer. Some empirical support for this prediction is provided. Copyright 1990 by the University of Chicago.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' A model is produced in which labor contracts that prespecify (unindexed) nominal wage payments arise endogenously. These contracts function as a self-selection mechanism. Under appropriately different attitudes toward price-level risk (which can either arise directly from preferences or be induced by different patterns of asset holdings), nominal contracts allow high-productivity workers to signal their type by their willingness to accept unindexed contracts. This explanation of nominal contracts does not require that money be used in any particular set of transactions, and nominal contracts enhance the risk faced by all parties accepting them. Copyright 1989 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' A real business cycle model is constructed in which workers are heterogeneous and privately informed about their own productive abilities. The model is structured so that interesting cycles cannot arise in the absence of their informational asymmetry. In the presence of this asymmetry, the model produces cyclical fluctuations that are consistent with features of observed business cycles. Hours behavior of individuals is also consistent with micro evidence. In addition, the model gives rise to equilibrium unemployment and labor. The determination of equilibrium unemployment rates, hours levels, and output are integrally related in the analysis. Copyright 1989 by University of Chicago Press.'] [' A real business cycle model is developed in which the workforce is heterogeneous. Workers are privately informed about their own productive abilities. It is shown that the presence of private information creates a mechanism for enhancing the variability of hours worked, as well as "channels of persistence." Moreover, aggregate hours worked can respond strongly to variations in average productivity (real wages), even though observed responses of hours worked to real wage movements are small for all individuals in the model. Copyright 1989 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] [' Asymmetric information about borrower default probabilities may lead to inefficient credit rationing of low-risk borrowers in otherwise competitive markets. In a simple model having these properties, we show that some types of government loan programs, such as loan guarantees issued through lenders, might improve economic efficiency. But the incentive for high-risk borrowers to misrepresent their loan quality is worsened by other government loan programs, notably those that try to target aid directly to rationed borrowers. As such, cost-effective programs may increase inefficiency. This surprising result highlights the need to conduct model-specific policy analyses, as opposed to analyses based on model-free performance indicators. Copyright American Real Estate and Urban Economics Association.'] ['This article describes a debate about the validity of the quantity theory of money and offers further evidence against it. The evidence is primarily from the North American colonies of Virginia, New York, and Pennsylvania and regards the issue of measuring the money supply. Studies have shown that changes in colonial money and inflation are inconsistent with the quantity theory. Some have argued that those studies measure money wrong: specie belongs in the measure because the colonies were on a fixed exchange rate system with Britain; changes in colonial paper money were offset by specie flows. When specie is counted, the quantity theory stands. This study responds with evidence that the critics are wrong: the colonies had no such fixed exchange rate regime, and movements in the stock of colonial paper currency cannot have been offset by specie flows. ; Reprinted in Quarterly Review, Fall 2002 (v. 26, no. 4)'] ['Three economic environments are reviewed and, in each, organizations play an essential role. For an adve rse selection insurance economy, the authors find that when mutual in surance arrangements are permitted, an equilibrium necessarily exists and is optimal. This example, and two others, illustrate the problem s that may result from imposing organizational structure on an enviro nment rather than permitting the structure to be determined endogenou sly.'] [' This paper considers two questions: (1) what is the purpose of legal restrictions intended to separate "money" fr om "credit markets," and (2) is such a separation desirable? It is argued that historical legal restrictions meant to achieve such a sep aration were designed to preclude the occurrence of sunspot equilibri a. It is also shown that a coherent model can be constructed in which sunspot equilibria exist in the absence of legal restrictions, but n ot if money and credit markets are separated. Nevertheless, there is no obvious welfare justification for such a separation. Copyright 1988 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In an overlapping generations model with borrowing and lending, uncertainty, and asymmetric information, fiat money may be essential to the existence of a competitive equilibrium. It may also serve to enhance the information of economic agents in a well-defined sense. In addition, the model presented provides suggestions about why the presence of valued fiat currency is essential to existence of equilibrium, even though in equilibrium perfect substitutes for money may exist.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This article argues that the quantity theory of money is not supported by the evidence. Contrary to the quantity theory, the article says, the value of money depends primarily on how carefully it is backed. That is, the rate of inflation depends more on underlying fiscal policies than on rates of money growth. The evidence for this argument comes from a close look at the way in which the colony of Massachusetts ended a severe long-term inflation in 1750. Other British North American colonies endured similar episodes, all of which parallel some periods of severe inflation in the 20th century United States. The 18th century evidence thus contains lessons for modern monetary policy. ; Reprinted in Quarterly Review, Fall 2002 (v. 26, no. 4)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']