 [' The volatility of economic activity in most G7 economies has moderated over the past 40 years. Also, despite large increases in trade and openness, G7 business cycles have not become more synchronized. After documenting these facts, we interpret G7 output data using a structural VAR that separately identifies common international shocks, the domestic effects of spillovers from foreign idiosyncratic shocks, and the effects of domestic idiosyncratic shocks. This analysis suggests that, with the exception of Japan, a significant portion of the widespread reduction in volatility is associated with a reduction in the magnitude of the common international shocks. Had the common international shocks in the 1980s and 1990s been as large as they were in the 1960s and 1970s, G7 business cycles would have been substantially more volatile and more highly synchronized than they actually were. (JEL: C3, E5) Copyright (c) 2005 by the European Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper uses forecast combination methods to forecast output growth in a seven-country quarterly economic data set covering 1959-1999, with up to 73 predictors per country. Although the forecasts based on individual predictors are unstable over time and across countries, and on average perform worse than an autoregressive benchmark, the combination forecasts often improve upon autoregressive forecasts. Despite the unstable performance of the constituent forecasts, the most successful combination forecasts, like the mean, are the least sensitive to the recent performance of the individual forecasts. While consistent with other evidence on the success of simple combination forecasts, this finding is difficult to explain using the theory of combination forecasting in a stationary environment. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2004 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] [' Ever since the pioneering work of Jan Tinbergen, econometric modelers have been aware of the danger that their models can be unstable over time and across policy environments. Work over the past fifteen years has produced a set of statistical procedures for identifying and modeling structural instability. This essay summarizes some of those procedures, uses them to discuss changes in the U.S. business cycle over the past four decades, and surveys some new research that tackles the widespread challenge of structural instability.'] ['This feature addresses the history of economic words and ideas. The hope is to deepen the workaday dialogue of economists, while perhaps also casting new light on ongoing questions.'] ['This paper investigates time series methods for forecasting four Euro-area wide aggregate variables: real GDP, industrial production, price inflation, and the unemployment rate. We consider two empirical questions arising from this problem. First, is it better to build aggregate Euro-area wide forecasting models for these variables, or are there gains from aggregating country-specific forecasts for the component country variables? Second, are there gains from using information from additional predictors beyond simple univariate time series forecasts, and if so, how large are these gains, and how are these gains best achieved? It turns out that typically there are gains from forecasting these series at the country level, then pooling the forecasts, relative to forecasting at the aggregate level. This suggests that structural macroeconometric modeling of the Euro area is appropriately done at the country-specific level, rather than directly at the aggregate level. Moreover, our simulated out-of-sample forecast experiment provides little evidence that forecasts from multivariate models are more accurate than forecasts from univariate models. If we restrict attention to multivariate models, the forecasts obtained from a dynamic factor model appear to be somewhat more accurate than the other methods.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Are asset prices useful predictors of inflation and real output growth? After reviewing the large literature on this topic, we undertake an empirical analysis of quarterly data for seven OECD countries spanning 1959-99. The literature review and the empirical analysis yield the same conclusions. Some asset prices predict inflation or output growth in some countries in some periods. Which series predicts what, when, and where is difficult to predict; being a good predictor historically is largely unrelated to subsequent performance. Intriguingly, forecasts that combine these individually unstable forecasts appear to improve reliably upon univariate benchmarks.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Weak instruments arise when the instruments in linear instrumental variables (IV) regression are weakly correlated with the included endogenous variables. In generalized method of moments (GMM), more generally, weak instruments correspond to weak identification of some or all of the unknown parameters. Weak identification leads to GMM statistics with nonnormal distributions, even in large samples, so that conventional IV or GMM inferences are misleading. Fortunately, various procedures are now available for detecting and handling weak instruments in the linear IV model and, to a lesser degree, in nonlinear GMM.'] [' This article studies forecasting a macroeconomic time series variable using a large number of predictors. The predictors are summarized using a small number of indexes constructed by principal component analysis. An approximate dynamic factor model serves as the statistical framework for the estimation of the indexes and construction of the forecasts. The method is used to construct 6-, 12-, and 24-month ahead forecasts for eight monthly U.S. macroeconomic time series using 215 predictors in simulated real time from 1970 through 1998. During this sample period these new forecasts outperformed univariate autoregressions, small vector autoregressions, and leading indicator models.'] ['This paper critically reviews the use of vector autoregressions (VARs) for four tasks: data description, forecasting, structural inference, and policy analysis. The paper begins with a review of VAR analysis, highlighting the differences between reduced-form VARs, recursive VARs and structural VARs. A three variable VAR that includes the unemployment rate, price inflation and the short term interest rate is used to show how VAR methods are used for the four tasks. The paper concludes that VARs have proven to be powerful and reliable tools for data description and forecasting, but have been less useful for structural inference and policy analysis.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Quah's [1993a] transition matrix analysis of world income distribution based on annual data suggests an ergodic distribution with twin peaks at the rich and poor end of the distribution. Since the ergodic distribution is a highly non-linear function of the underlying transition matrix estimated extremely noisily. Estimates over the foreseeable future are more precise. The Markovian assumptions underlying the analysis are much better satisfied with an analysis based on five-year transitions than one-year transitions. Such an analysis yields an ergodic distribution with 72% of mass in the top income category, but a prolonged transition, during which some inequality measures increase. The rosy ergodic forecast and prolonged transition arise because countries' relative incomes move both up and down at moderate levels, but once countries reach the highest income category, they rarely leave it. This is consistent with a model in which countries search among policies until they reach an income level at which further experimentation is too costly. If countries can learn from each other's experience, the future may be much brighter than would be predicted based on projecting forward the historical transition matrix.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper examines monetary policy in Rudebusch and Svensson's (1999) two equation macroeconomic model when the policymaker recognizes that the model is an approximation and is uncertain about the quality of that approximation. It is argued that the minimax approach of robust control provides a general and tractable alternative to the conventional Bayesian decision theoretic approach. Robust control techniques are used to construct robust monetary policies. In most (but not all) cases, these robust policies are more aggressive than the optimal policies absent model uncertainty. The specific robust policies depend strongly on the formation of model uncertainty used, and we make some suggestions about which formulation is most relevant for monetary policy applications.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['A panel of ex-ante forecasts of a single time series is modeled as a dynamic factor model, where the conditional expectation is the single unobserved factor. When applied to out-of-sample forecasting, this leads to combination forecasts that are based on methods other than OLS. These methods perform well in a Monte Carlo experiment. These methods are evaluated empirically in a panel of simulated real-time computer-generated univariate forecasts of U.S. macroeconomic time series.'] ['This paper investigates forecasts of U.S. inflation at the 12-month horizon. The starting point is the conventional unemployment rate Phillips curve, which is examined in a simulated out of sample forecasting framework. Inflation forecasts produced by the Phillips curve generally have been more accurate than forecasts based on other macroeconomic variables, including interest rates, money and commodity prices. These forecasts can however be improved upon using a generalized Phillips curve based on measures of real aggregate activity other than unemployment, especially a new index of aggregate activity based on 61 real economic indicators.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper develops methods for constructing asymptotically valid confidence intervals for the date of a single break in multivariate time series, including I(0), I(1), and deterministically trending regressors. Although the width of the asymptotic confidence interval does not decrease as the sample size increases, it is inversely related to the number of series that have a common break date, so there are substantial gains to multivariate inference about break dates. These methods are applied to two empirical examples: the mean growth rate of output in three European countries and the mean growth rate of U.S. consumption, investment, and output. Copyright 1998 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] ["This paper develops asymptotic distribution theory for instrumental variables regression when the partial correlations between the instruments and the endogenous variables are weak, here modeled as local to zero. Asymptotic representation are provided for various statistics, including two-stage least squares and limited information maximum likelihood estimators, Wald statistics, and statistics testing overidentification and endogeneity. The asymptotic distributions provide good approximations to sampling distributions with ten-twenty observations per instrument. The theory suggests concrete guidelines for applied work, including using nonstandard methods for construction of confidence regions. These results are used to interpret J. D. Angrist and A. B. Krueger's (1991) estimates of the returns to education."] ['This paper examines the precision of conventional estimates of the NAIRU and the role of the NAIRU and unemployment in forecasting inflation. The authors find that, although there is a clear empirical Phillips relation, the NAIRU is imprecisely estimated, forecasts of inflation are insensitive to the NAIRU, and there are other leading indicators of inflation that are at least as good as unemployment. This suggests deemphasizing the NAIRU in public discourse about monetary policy and instead drawing on a richer variety of leading indicators of inflation.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper examines the problem of measuring the growth of a monetary aggregate in the presence of innovations in financial markets and changes in the relationship between individual assets and output. We propose constructing a monetary aggregate so that it is a good leading indicator of nominal GDP; in general the weights on its components vary over time. We investigate two specific procedures: one in which subaggregates discretely switch in and out, and one in which the growth of the aggregate is a time-varying weighted average of the growth of the subaggregates, where the weights follow a random walk. These procedures are used to construct aggregates which potentially augment M2 with stock and/or bond mutual funds. Over 1960-1991, the time-varying aggregates look much like M2, but during 1992-93 the time-varying aggregates outperform M2.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" This paper focuses on the construction of forecasts over long horizons where a typical, long-horizon forecast might span four years using twenty to forty years' data. It is argued that the presence of persistence in the form of unit or near-unit autoregressive roots poses substantial difficulties for long-horizon interval and point forecasting. These difficulties may not be overcome even by efficient pretesting or model-selection procedures and might, in general, lead to point forecasts with large asymptotic root mean squared errors and undesirably wide prediction intervals. Copyright 1996 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd"] [' The asymptotic power envelope is derived for point-optimal tests of a unit root in the autoregressive representation of a Gaussian time series. The authors propose a family of tests whose asymptotic power functions are tangent to the power envelope at one point and are never far below. When the series has an unknown mean or linear trend, commonly used tests are found to be dominated by members of the family of point-optimal invariant tests. The authors propose a modified version of the Dickey-Fuller t test which has desirable size properties and substantially improved power when an unknown mean or trend is present. Copyright 1996 by The Econometric Society.'] [' An experiment is performed to assess the prevalence of instability in univariate and bivariate macroeconomic time series relations and to ascertain whether various adaptive forecasting techniques successfully handle any such instability. Formal tests for instability and out-of-sample forecasts from sixteen different models are computed using a sample of seventy-six representative U.S. monthly postwar macroeconomic time series, constituting 5,700 bivariate forecasting relations. The tests for instability and the forecast comparisons suggest that there is substantial instability in a significant fraction of the univariate and bivariate autoregressive models.'] ['This paper proposes a class of procedures that consistently classify the stochastic component of a time series as being integrated either of order zero (l(0\xc2\xbb or one (l(1\xc2\xbb for general 1(0) and 1(1) processes. These procedures entail the evaluation of the asymptotic likelihoods of certain statistics under the 1(0)and 1(1) hypotheses. These likelihoods do not depend on nuisance parameters describing short-run dynamics and diverge asymptotically, so their ratio provides a consistent basis for classifying a process as 1(1) or 1(0). Bayesian inference can be performed by placing prior mass only on the point hypotheses "1(0)" and "1(1)" without needing to specify parametric priors within the classes of 1(0) and 1(1) processes; the result is posterior odds ratios for the 1(0) and 1(1) hypotheses. These procedures are developed for general polynomial and piecewise linear detrending. When applied to the Nelson-Plosser data with linear detrending, they largely support the original Nelson-Plosser inferences. With piecewise-linear detrending these data are typically uninformative, producing Bayes factors that are close to one.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Efficient estimators of cointegrating vectors are presented for systems involving deterministic components and variables of differing, higher orders of integration. The estimators are computed using GLS or OLS, and Wald statistics constructed from these estimators have asymptotic x [superscript] 2 distributions. These and previously proposed estimators of cointegrating vectors are used to study long-run U.S. money (M1) demand. M1 demand is found to be stable over 1900-1989; the 95 percent confidence intervals for the income elasticity and interest rate semielasticity are (0.88, 1.06) and (-0.13, -0.08), respectively. Estimates based on the postwar data alone, however, are unstable, with variances which indicate substantial sampling uncertainty. Copyright 1993 by The Econometric Society.'] [' This paper investigates the possibility, raised by P. Perron (1989, 1990) and P. Rappoport and L. Reichlin (1989), that aggregate economic time series can be characterized as being stationary around broken trend lines. Unlike those authors, the authors treat the break date as unknown a priori. Asymptotic distributions are developed for recursive, rolling, and sequential tests for unit roots and/or changing coefficients in time series regressions. When applied to data on real postwar output from seven OECD countries, these techniques fail to reject the unit-root hypothesis for five countries (including the United States) but suggest stationarity around a shifted trend for Japan.'] ['This paper provides asymptotic confidence intervals for the largest autoregressive root of a time series when this root is close to one. The intervals are readily constructed either graphically or using tables in the Appendix. When applied to the Nelson-Plosser (1982) data set, the main conclusion is that the confidence intervals typically are wide. The conventional emphasis on testing for whether the largest root equals one fails to convey the substantial sampling variability associated with this measure of persistence.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Are business cycles mainly the result of permanent shocks to productivity? This paper uses a long-run restriction implied by a large class of real-business-cycle models--identifying permanent productivity shocks as shocks to the common stochastic trend in output, consumption, and investment--to provide new evidence on this question. Econometric tests indicate that this common-stochastic-trend/cointegration implication is consistent with postwar U.S. data. However, in systems with nominal variables, the estimates of this common stochastic trend indicate that permanent productivity shocks typically explain less than half of the business-cycle variability in output, consumption, and investment. Copyright 1991 by American Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The effects of firm pension plan provisions on the retirement decisions of older employees are analyzed. The empirical results are based on data from a large firm, with a typical defined benefit pension plan. The "option value" of continued work is the central feature of the analysis. Estimation relies on a retirement decision rule that is close in spirit to the dynamic programming rule, but is considerably less complex than a comprehensive implementation of that rule, thus greatly facilitating the numerical analysis. Copyright 1990 by The Econometric Society.'] ['Recently many U.S. firms have offered "window" plans that provide bonuses to a group of workers if the worker retires within a specified short time span. This paper examines a window plan at a Fortune 500 firm, and addresses two main issues. First, what was the effect of the window plan on departures? Second, assuming a variety of possible firm objectives, what would be the design of an efficient window plan? These questions are addressed using the retirement model in Stock and Wise [1988a, 1988b] . The model, estimated using data for an earlier year, predicts well out-of-sample the subsequent large increase in retirements under the window plan. We find that while the firm successfully maximized departures, if its goal was to minimize either expected future wage payments or the current cost per induced retirement, the firm could have saved more with efficient plans constructed using the model. One interpretation is that the firm was primarily interested in reducing the overall size of the labor force or in retiring older employees to allow promotion of younger employees.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper considers estimation and hypothesis testing in linear time series when some or all of the variables have (possibly multiple) unit roots. The motivating example is a vector autoregression with some unit roots in the companion matrix, which might include polynomials in time as regressors. Parameters that can be written as coefficients on mean zero, nonintegrated regressors have jointly normal asymptotic distribution, converging at the rate of T(superscript "one-half") In general, the other coefficients (including the coefficient on polynomials in time), and associated t and F test statistics, have nonstandard asymptotic distributions. Copyright 1990 by The Econometric Society.'] [' This paper gives a solution to the problem of estimating coefficients of index models, through the estimation of the density-weighted average derivative of a general regression function. A normalized version of the density-weighted average derivative can be estimated by certain linear instrumental variables coefficients. The estimators, based on sample analogies of the product moment representation of the average derivative, are constructed using nonparametric kernel estimators of the density of the regressors. Consistent estimators of the asymptotic variance-covariance matrices of the estimators are given, and a limited Monte Carlo simulation is used to study the practical performance of the procedures. Copyright 1989 by The Econometric Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Time series variables that stochastically trend together form a cointegrated system. OLS and NLS estimators of the parameters of a cointegrating vector are shown to converge in probability to the true parameter value at the rate T11d for any positive d. These estim mators can be written asymptotically in terms of relatively simple nonnormal random matrices which do not depend on the parameters of th e system. These asymptotic representations form the basis for simple and fast Monte Carlo calculations of the limiting distributions of th ese estimators. Asymptotic distributions thus computed are tabulated for several cointegrated processes. Copyright 1987 by The Econometric Society.'] [' The paper investigates some properties of "near rational" models of the cycle, examining two types of framework. In the first, an otherwise classical, competitive economy is shown to respond to demand disturbances when some firms follow a near rational hiring policy. In the second model, a dynamic setting is addressed and a criterion termed "stochastic near rationality" is employed. Simulation results are consistent with recent empirical findings and suggest that further quantitative evaluation is merited. Copyright 1987 by Royal Economic Society.'] [' The business cycle analysis of Arthur F. Burns and Wesley C. Mitchell and the National Bureau of Economic Research presumed that aggregate economic variables evolve on a time scale defined by business cycle turning points rather than by months or quarters. Do macroeconomic variables appear to evolve on an economic rather than a calendar time scale? Evidence presented here suggests that they do. However, the estimated economic time scales are only weakly related to business cycle time scales, providing evidence against the view underlying traditional business cycle analysis. Copyright 1987 by University of Chicago Press.']