 ['The nature of macroeconomics has changed dramatically in the last seven years. Now, instead of being concerned with minor adjustments to stabilize about a given trend, concern is focused on avoiding secular stagnation. Much of this concern arises from the long-run effects of short-run developments and the inability of monetary policy to accomplish much more when interest rates have already reached their lower bound. This address analyzes contemporary macroeconomic problems and proposes solutions to put the U.S. economy back on a path toward healthy growth.'] ['There are two common failures in economic forecasting. One is excessive extrapolation of the (recent) past into the (distant) future, particularly susceptibility to \xe2\x80\x9cirrational exuberance\xe2\x80\x9d (Schiller). The second is excessive subjective certainty that relies on confidence in continuity and hence consistently under predicts discontinuities\xe2\x80\x94even relative to their known past probabilities. While the more bullish attitudes towards growth in China and India have been softening, the official forecasts in the IMF World Economic Outlook and the general discussions about the future of the global economy are often premised on the continuation of perhaps slower but growth that is super-rapid (more than two standard deviations above the cross-national average) in both China and India. We make three points. First, the single most robust empirical finding about economic growth is low persistence of growth rates. Extrapolation of current growth rates into the future is at odds with all empirical evidence about the strength of regression to the mean in growth rates. Second, especially outside of the OECD countries, the process of economic growth is not at all well characterized by business cycle variations around a (relatively) stable mean. Developing country growth rates are strongly episodic and large (and apparently discrete) shifts in medium-term growth rates of 4 ppa or more common\xe2\x80\x94and particularly prominent are large slowdowns. Episodes of super-rapid growth tend to be of short duration and end in decelerations back to the world average growth rate. Both China and India are already in the midst of episodes that are historically long and fast. Third, while we are not predicting sharp decelerations in either economy, there are plausible scenarios based on identifiable fissures in existing growth processes that could lead to sharp and sustained periods of slow growth. We are not arguing that one can predict with any degree of accuracy or confidence a slowdown but certainly policy makers need to be prepared for a wider range of extended slow-growth outcomes in these Asian giants that those that currently dominate the discourse. Hitching the cart of the future global economy to the horse of the Asian giants carries substantial risks.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Over the past year, substantial progress has been made on the path to economic recovery. Yet, as true with most recessions induced by a financial crisis, recovery is going to be long and slow. This is particularly true for employment. Moreover, there is evidence that indicates there are structural as well as cyclical concerns about this recovery's slow employment growth. The personal as well as macroeconomic costs of this slow growth mean that there is no higher public policy priority than economic recovery and job creation. This address presents and discusses three guiding principles for economic policy: restoring confidence, increasing aggregate demand, and achieving broader and deeper education."] ['Policymaking for posterity involves current decisions with distant consequences. Contrary to conventional prescriptions, we conclude that the greater wealth of future generations may strengthen the case for preserving environmental amenities; lower discount rates should be applied to the far future, and special effort should be made to avoid actions that impose costs on future generations. Posterity brings great uncertainties. Even massive losses, such as human extinction, however, do not merit infinite negative utility. Given learning, greater uncertainties about damages could increase or decrease the optimal level of current mitigation activities. Policies for posterity should anticipate effects on: alternative investments, both public and private; the actions of other nations; and the behaviors of future generations. Such effects may surprise. This analysis blends traditional public finance and behavioral economics with a number of hypothetical choice problems.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In a presentation at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City\xe2\x80\x99s 2001 symposium, \xe2\x80\x9cEconomic Policy for the Information Economy,\xe2\x80\x9d Professor J. Bradford DeLong of the University of California-Berkeley, and Harvard President Lawrence H. Summers suggested that any attempt to analyze the meaning and importance of the "new economy" must grapple with four questions:&gt; First, in the long run, how important will ongoing technological revolutions in data processing and data communications turn out to be? Second, what does the crash of the Nasdaq tell us about the future of the new economy? Third, how should government regulation of the economy change so as to maximize the benefits we reap from these ongoing technological revolutions? And fourth, how will the American economy respond to the shock to public confidence and the destruction caused by the terror attacks of September 11?&gt; In exploring answers to these questions, the authors found the following: The long-run economic impact of the ongoing technological revolutions in data processing and data communications will be very large indeed. The crash of the Nasdaq tells us next to nothing about the dimensions of the economic transformation that we are undergoing. It does, however, tell us that the new economy is more likely to be a source of downward pressure on margins than of large durable quasi-rents. The principal effects of the "new economy" are more likely to be "microeconomic" than "macroeconomic," and they will lead to profound\xe2\x80\x94if at present unclear\xe2\x80\x94changes in how the government should act to provide the property rights, institutional frameworks, and "rules of the game" that underpin the market economy. And finally, the events of September 11 will slow private investment in new technologies, but U.S. military spending is likely to increase, and the increase in military spending will be concentrated on high-technology data-processing and data-communications products. On ba<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['On the topic of globalization and economic integration, I want to address five subjects: The first is the extent of global integration that has taken place and that lies in prospect. The second is the broad case for economic integration and why domestic and global efforts to promote that case have not been more successful. The third is the challenge to policymakers that is posed by what I have called the "economic integration trilemma" --the difficulty of combining the three goals of greater economic integration, proper public economic management, and national sovereignty in a world in which any one of these goals can conflict with the other two. Fourth, I want to reflect on some of the policy implications of increased integration in one area that has been highlighted by the crises in Asia, Russia, and elsewhere: the international capital market. Finally, I will offer some concluding observations about the special role for the United States as the world\'s only economic superpower in managing global integration.'] ['We estimate the effect of income on health using cross-country, time-series data on health (infant and child mortality and life expectancy) and income per capita. We use instrumental variables estimates using exogenous determinants of income growth to identify the pure income effect on health, isolated from reverse causation or incidental association. The long-run income elasticity of infant and child mortality in developing countries lies between -0.2 and -0.4. Using these estimates, we calculate that over a half a million child deaths in the developing world in 1990 alone can be attributed to the poor economic performance in the 1980s.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper utilizes validation data on survey response error in the Current Population Survey to generalize the standard multinomial logit model to allow for spurious events that result from classification error. The authors' basic approach could be used with other stochastic models of discrete events as well. They illustrate their algorithm by studying the effect of unemployment insurance on transitions from unemployment to employment and on labor-force withdrawal. Their results confirm earlier work suggesting that unemployment insurance lengthens unemployment spells and show that correcting for classification error strengthens the apparent effect of unemployment insurance on spell durations. Copyright 1995 by MIT Press."] ['Este art\xc3\xadculo muestra que el trabajo emp\xc3\xadrico formal que, para usar la frase de Sargent [1987,7], intenta "tratar los modelos en forma seria y econom\xc3\xa9trica" casi no ha influido en la reflexi\xc3\xb3n seria sobre cuestiones esenciales, en contraste con los problemas metodol\xc3\xb3gicos. En verdad, la investigaci\xc3\xb3n emp\xc3\xadrica que ha influido en la reflexi\xc3\xb3n sobre temas sustantivos se ha basado en principios metodol\xc3\xb3gicos complementamente opuestos a los que se han puesto de moda en los a\xc3\xb1os recientes. La investigaci\xc3\xb3n emp\xc3\xadrica exitosa se ha caracterizado por los intentos de medir la fuerza de las asociaciones en vez de estimar par\xc3\xa1metros estructurales, por las representaciones verbales de las relaciones causales en vez de modelos matem\xc3\xa1ticos expl\xc3\xadcitos, y por el uso ingenioso de experimentos naturales escogidos cuidadosamente en vez de t\xc3\xa9cnicas estad\xc3\xadsticas sofisticadas para lograr la identificaci\xc3\xb3n.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This note uses information on a sample of sixteen OECD countries to assess the relationship between central bank independence and macroeconomic performance. As previous work suggests, politically controlled central banks are more likely to pursue policies that lead to high and variable inflation. However, the authors find little evidence that political control of central bank policy has any impact on measures of the level or variability of growth, unemployment, or the ex ante real interest rate. Copyright 1993 by Ohio State University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Should managers, when taking investment decisions, follow the signals given by the stock market even when those do not coincide with their own assessment of fundamentals? Do they? In this paper, the authors review theoretical arguments and examine the empirical evidence. First, they look at the relation between investment, market valuation, and proxies for fundamentals over the last ninety years. Second, the authors look at the behavior of investment during the episodes associated with the crashes of 1929 and 1987. The autho rs find a limited role of market valuation, given fundamentals. Copyright 1993, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [" The authors propose an explanation for the wide variation in rates of taxation across developed economies, based on differences in labor market institutions. In 'corporatist' economies, which feature centralized labor markets, taxes on labor input will be less distortionary than when labor supply is determined individually. Since the level of labor supply is set by a small group of decisionmakers, these individuals will recognize the linkage between the taxes that workers pay and the benefits that they receive. Labor tax burdens are indeed higher in more corporatist nations, while nonlabor taxes are actually lower. There is also some evidence that the distortionary effects of labor taxes are lower in more corporatist economies. Copyright 1993, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] ['Much of the new growth literature stresses country characteristics, such as education levels or political stability, as the dominant determinant of growth. However, growth rates are highly unstable over time, with a correlation across decades of .1 to .3, while country characteristics are stable, with cross-decade correlations of .6 to .9. Shocks, especially those to terms of trade, play a large role in explaining variance in growth. These findings suggest either that shocks are important relative to country characteristics in determining long-run growth, or that worldwide technological change determines long-run growth while country characteristics determine relative income levels.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["Recent research has convinced the author that once all the benefits are recognized, investment in the education of girls may be the highest return of investment available in the developing world. The author stresses five major points: (1) higher death rates are symptomatic of the more general pattern of female deprivation in the developing world; (2) underinvestment in girls is an economic problem resulting from a vicious cycle caused by distorted incentives; (3) educated women choose to have fewer children and can provide more for those they do have; (4) the social benefits alone of increased female education are more than sufficient to cover its costs; and (5) priorities should be to reduce the cost of schooling for girls and make special efforts to accommodate parent's practical needs. Major initiatives to increase female education can transform society over time. If more girls had gone to school a generation ago, millions of infant deaths could have been averted each year, and tens of millions of families could have been healthier and happier.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Explains that corrective taxes should be the preferred choice in the search for new revenues.'] [' Using data from the United Nations Comparison Project and the Penn World Table, we find that machinery and equipment investment has a strong association with growth: over 1960-85 each extra percent of GDP invested in equipment is associated with an increase in GDP growth of one third of a percentage point per year. This is a much stronger association than found between growth and any of the other components of investment. A variety of considerations suggest that this association is causal, that higher equipment investment drives faster growth, and that the social return to equipment investment in well-functioning market economies is on the order of 30 percent per year. Copyright 1991, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ["Compared to the U.S. national accounts, the Japanese accounts understate consumption and government spending, and therefore overstate the national saving rate. Recently, Hayashi has recalculated Japan's national saving according to the American Department of Commerce definition and found that from the mid-1970s until today, Japan's national saving rate is nearly halved. In this paper, we argue that Hayashi's adjustments to the Japanese income accounts are exaggerated, and present measures of Japanese and U.S. private saving that are immune from national income accounting biases. Our saving measures are constructed from the balance sheets of the household sectors in the United States and Japan. Far from being equal, we find that the two country gap in saving rates in the early-1980s has averaged between 15 and 30 percentage points, depending on the measure."] [' It is argued that formal econometric work, where elaborate technique is used to apply theory to data or isolate the direction of causal relationships when they are not obvious a priori, virtually always fails. The only empirical research that has contributed to thinking about substantive issues and the development of economics is pragmatic empirical work, based on methodological principles directly opposed to those that have become fashionable in recent years. Copyright 1991 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper presents evidence on the characteristic speculative dynamics of returns on stocks, bonds, foreign exchange, real estate, collectibles, and precious metals. It highlights four stylized facts. First, returns tend to be positively serially correlated at high frequency. Second, they are weakly negatively serially correlated over long horizons. Third, deviations of asset values from proxies for fundamental value have predictive power for returns. Fourth, short term interest rates are negatively correlated with excess returns on other assets. The similarity of the results across markets suggest that they may be due to inherent features of the speculative process. Copyright 1991 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] ['This paper summarizes our earlier research documenting the characteristic speculative dynamics of many asset markets and suggests a framework for understanding them. Our model incorporates "feedback traders," traders whose demand is based on the history of past returns rather than the expectation of future fundamentals. We use this framework to describe ways in which the characteristic return patterns might be generated, and also to address the long-standing question of whether profitable speculation stabilizes asset markets.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Analyses of rational speculation usually presume that it dampens fluctuations caused by "noise" traders. This is not necessarily the case if noise traders follow positive-feedback strategies--buy when prices rise and sell when prices fall. It may pay to jump on the bandwagon and purchase ahead of noise demand. If rational speculators\' early buying triggers positive-feedback trading, then an increase in the number of forward-looking speculators can increase volatility about fundamentals. This model is consistent with a number of empirical observations about the correlation of asset returns, the overreaction of prices to news, price bubbles, and expectations. Coauthors are Andrei Shleifer, Lawrence H. Summers, and Robert J. Waldmann. Copyright 1990 by American Finance Association.'] [" Robert E. Hall has shown that with perfect competition and price flexibility, total factor productivity, measured using labor's share whether in revenues or in costs, will be acyclical regardless of the level of labor hoarding. The authors show that if firms producing a homogeneous good under constant returns must pick their prices before demand is known, both measures of productivity become procyclical. The model implies the productivity should be more procyclical the more important is labor hoarding. Empirically, productivity is more procyclical in industries and in nations where labor hoarding appears more important. Copyright 1990, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] ["[fre] La courbe de Phillips semble \xc3\xaatre \xc3\xa9limin\xc3\xa9e des mod\xc3\xa8les puisqu'une inflation stable n'affecte pas le ch\xc3\xb4mage. Cela ne signifie pas qu'aucune politique n'est mais plut\xc3\xb4t qu'il existe des limites \xc3\xa0 l'\xc3\xa9quilibre qu'une politique peut imposer. La difficult\xc3\xa9 est de trouver la politique ad\xc3\xa9quate ce qui l'am\xc3\xa9lioration des th\xc3\xa9ories de l'hyst\xc3\xa9r\xc3\xa9sis d\xc3\xa9crivant comment l'histoire d\xc3\xa9termine l'\xc3\xa9quilibre d'une \xc3\xa9conomie. En fait, pour mener une politique efficace, il faut, comme un joueur de poker, se faire un jugement au cas par cas et mener des actions audacieuses. Cela sera beaucoup plus efficace que suivre passivement les r\xc3\xa8gles \xc3\xa9tablies, d'autant plus que les th\xc3\xa9ories am\xc3\xa9lior\xc3\xa9es des hyst\xc3\xa9r\xc3\xa9sis peuvent \xc3\xaatre d'une grande aide. [eng] The natural rate Phillips curve can be eliminated from our models since steady inflation does not affect the average level of unemployment. This does not mean that no policy is efficient, this proves only that there are limits to the equilibria that policies can impose on the economy. The difficulty is in finding the right policy, this will require improved hysteresis theories describing how history determines an economy equilibrium. In fact, a shrewd policy maker will make case by case judgments \xe2\x80\x94 just as a poker player \xe2\x80\x94 and will not shrink from bold actions. He will be much more efficient than others who passively follow fixed rules and in addition improved theories of economic hysteresis will help them out."] [" The authors present a simple overlapping generations model of an asset market in which irrational noise traders with erroneous stochastic beliefs both affect prices and earn higher expected returns. The unpredictability of noise traders' beliefs creates a risk in the price of the asset that deters rational arbitrageurs from aggressively betting against them. As a result, prices can diverge significantly from fundamental values even in the absence of fundamental risk. Moreover, bearing a disproportionate amount of risk that they themselves create enables noise traders to earn a higher expected return than rational investors do. The model sheds light on a number of financial anomalies. Copyright 1990 by University of Chicago Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The issue of dynamic efficiency is central to analyses of capital accumulation and economic growth. Yet the question of what characteristics should be examined to determine whether actual economies are dynamically efficient is unresolved. This paper develops a criterion for determining whether an economy is dynamically efficient. The criterion, which holds for economies in which technological progress and population are stochastic, involves a comparison of the cash flows generated by capital with the level of investment. Its application to the U.S. economy and the economies of other major OECD nations suggests that they are dynamically efficient. Copyright 1989 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] [" The simplest economic theories of crime predict that profit-maximizing firms should follow strategies of minimal monitoring with large penalties for employee crime. The authors investigate possible reasons why firms actually spend considerable resources trying to detect employee malfeasance. They find that the most plausible explanations for firms' large outlays on monitoring of employees--legal restrictions on penalty clauses in contracts and the adverse impact of harsh punishment schemes on worker morale--are also consistent with the payment of premium (rent-generating) wages by cost-minimizing firms. Coauthors are Lawrence F. Katz, Kevin Lang, and Lawrence H. Summers. Copyright 1989 by University of Chicago Press."] ["This paper presents a multisector general equilibrium model that is capable of providing integrated assessments of the economy's short- and long- run responses to tax policy changes. The model contains an explicit treatment of firm's investment decisions according to which producers exhibit forward- looking behavior and take account of adjustment costs inherent in the installation of new capital. This permits an examination of both short-run effects of tax policy on industry profits and asset prices as well as 1ong-term effects on capital accumulation. The model contains considerable detail on U.S. industry, corporate financial policies, and the U.S. tax system. Simulation results reveal that the effects of tax policy differ significantly depending on whether the policy is oriented toward new or old capital measures like the investment tax credit stimulate investment without conferring significant windfall gains on corporate shareholders. Corporate tax rate reductions with the same revenue cost, on the other hand, yield large windfalls to shareholders while providing only a modest stimulus to investment in plant and equipment.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' type="main" xml:lang="en"&gt;  Recent empirical research has identified a significant amount of volatility in stock prices that cannot easily be explained by changes in fundamentals; one interpretation is that asset prices respond not only to news but also to irrational \xe2\x80\x9cnoise trading.\xe2\x80\x9d We assess the welfare effects and incidence of such noice trading using an overlapping-generations model that gives investors short horizons. We find that the additional risk generated by noise trading can reduce the capital stock and consumption of the economy, and we show that part of that cost may be borne by rational investors. We conclude that the welfare costs of noise trading may be large if the magnitude of noise in aggregate stock prices is as large as suggested by some of the recent empirical litrature on the excess volatility of the market.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper contributes a new element to the explanations of the Gibson paradox, the puzzling correlation between interest rates and the price level seen during the gold-standard peri od. A shock that raises the underlying real rate of return in the eco nomy reduces the equilibrium relative price of gold and, with the nom inal price of gold pegged by the authorities, must raise the price le vel. The mechanism involves the allocation of gold between monetary a nd nonmonetary uses. The authors' explanation helps to resolve some i mportant anomalies in previous work and is supported by empirical evi dence along a number of dimensions. Copyright 1988 by University of Chicago Press."] [" This article demonstrates that the dispute between Texaco and Pennzoil over the Getty Oil takeover reduced the combined wealth of the claimants on the two companies by over $3 billion. During the course of the litigation, Pennzoil's shareholders gained only one-sixth as much as Texaco's shareholders lost. When the litigation was settled, about two-thirds of the loss in wealth was regained. These fluctuations in value exceed most estimates of the direct costs of carrying on the litigation, and may reflect the disruption in the operations of Texaco caused by the dispute."] ['This paper analyzes the statistical evidence bearing on whether transitory components account for a large fraction of the variance in common stock returns. The first part treats methodological issues involved in testing for transitory return components. It demonstrates that variance ratios are among the most powerful tests for detecting mean reversion in stock prices, but that they have little power against the principal interesting alternatives to the random walk hypothesis. The second part applies variance ratio tests to market returns for the United States over the 1871-1986 period and for seventeen other countries over the 1957-1985 period, as well as to returns on individual firms over the 1926- 1985 period. We find consistent evidence that stock returns are positively serially correlated over short horizons, and negatively autocorrelated over long horizons. The point estimates suggest that the transitory components in stock prices have a standard deviation of between 15 and 25 percent and account for more than half of the variance in monthly returns. The last part of the paper discusses two possible explanations for mean reversion: time varying required returns, and slowly-decaying "price fads" that cause stock prices to deviate from fundamental values for periods of several years. We conclude that explaining observed transitory components in stock prices on the basis of movements in required returns due to risk factors is likely to be difficult.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["While modern economic theorists have produced a variety of explanations for the failure of wages to fall in the face of unemployment, Keynes emphasis on relative wages has not been reflected in most contemporary discussions. This short paper suggests that relative wage theories in which workers' productivity depends primarily on their relative wage provide the best available apparatus for understanding actual unemployment and its fluctuations. Such theories are very closely related to the efficiency wage theories that have received widespread attention in recent years.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper uses cross-sectional and longitudinal data to examine differences in pay for equally-skilled workers in different ind ustries. The major finding is that there is substantial dispersion in wages across industries, even after allowing for measured and unmeas ured labor quality, working conditions, fringe benefits, transitory d emand shocks, the threat of union-ization, union bargaining power, fi rm size, and other factors. In addition, evidence is presented demons trating that turnover has a negative relationship with industry wage differentials. These findings suggest that workers in high-wage indus tries receive noncompetitive rents. Copyright 1988 by The Econometric Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["The recent European experience of high persistent unemployment has led to the development of theories of unemployment hysteresis embodying the idea that the equilibrium unemployment rate depends on the history of the actual unemployment rate. This paper summarizes two directions of research on hysteresis that appear especially promising. Membership theories are based on the distinction between insiders and outsiders and explore the idea that wage setting is largely determined by firms' incumbent workers rather than by the unemployed. Duration theories explore the idea that the long term unemployed exert much less downwards pressure on wages than do the short term unemployed.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['One of the central questions in macroeconomics for many years has been whether government policy can affect private saving rates, and if so to what extent and through what channels. The question has remained controversial because, as with other macroeconomic questions, experiments to check divergent hypotheses cannot be deliberately performed, so economists must rely upon the often dubious evidence from the limited experiments with which nature and history have endowed us. This paper discusses the results of an exceptionally good natural experiment that has been provided by Canada and the U.S. over the past thirty-five years. After moving in tandem for almost 25 years, American and Canadian private saving rates have diverged dramatically over the last decade. The primary conclusion emerging from our analysis of this phenomenon is that tax policies can have a potent impact on private savings behavior. Differences in tax structures and in the interactions of taxation and inflation appear to be important factors explaining the divergent behavior of the American and Canadian private savings rates. Recognizing the importance of asset revaluations, caused partially but not entirely by tax effects, also helps to explain the different behavior of U.S. and Canadian savings. There may also be a relationship between government deficits and the private savings differential.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" The authors examine Henry Ford's introduction of the five-dollar day in 1914 in an effort to evaluate the relevance of efficiency-wag e theories of wage and employment determination. They conclude that t he Ford experience strongly supports the relevance of these theories. Ford's decision to increase wages dramatically is most plausibly the consequence of labor problems of the kind efficiency-wage theorists stress. The structure of the five-dollar day program is consistent wi th the predictions of efficiency-wage theories. There is vivid eviden ce that the introduction of the five-dollar day resulted in substanti al queues for Ford jobs. Significant increases in Ford productivity a nd profits accompanied the new regime. Copyright 1987 by University of Chicago Press."] ['European unemployment is widely regarded as a problem of excessive real wages. This view as it is usually expressed carries the disturbing implication that there is a sharp conflict between the interests of those currently employed and the unemployed because it suggests that increases in employment will require reductions in the real wages of those currently employed. The first part of this paper shows that increases in employment in Europe are likely to be associated with rising real take-home pay for workers because of fiscal increasing returns. Increases in employment and output will make possible reductions in taxes sufficiently large to offset any effects of diminishing returns to labor. The second part of the paper considers alternative explanations for the failure of nominal wages to adjust so as to restore full employment and their implications for the efficacy of fiscal policies. It concludes that under a variety of plausible conditions tax cuts would succeed in stimulating employment.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper uses John Taylor's model of overlapping contracts to show that increased wage and price flexibility can easily be destabilizing because of the Mundell effect. While lower prices increase output, the expectation of falling prices decreases output. Simulations based on realistic parameter values suggest that increases in price flexibility might well increase the cyclical variability of output in the United States. Copyright 1986 by American Economic Association."] ['This paper examines the reasons for the dramatic increase in real interest rates in the world economy observed over the 1978 to 1984 period. The authors find little evidence to suggest that budget deficits can be blamed for the increase in worlwide real interest rates. The structural inflation-adjusted budget deficits of the major OECD nations has not changed appreciably since 1978. Rather, the authors are led to explain high real interest rates in terms of the combined effect of tigh monetary policies and the increased attractiveness of investment. The importance of the later factor is evidenced by the strong performance of stock markets and investment around the world in the face of high real interest rates.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper reexamines the choice of the scale variable in the money-demand function. A variety of evidence suggests that consumer spending is a better scale variable than GNP. Changing the money- demand specification along these lines can profoundly affect the standard Keynesian analysis of a tax cut. Copyright 1986 by Ohio State University Press.'] [" This paper develops a model of dual labor markets based on employers' need to motivate workers. In order to elicit effort from their workers, employers may find it optimal to pay more than the going wage. This changes fundamentally the character of labor markets. The model is applied to a wide range of labor market phenomena. It provides a coherent framework for understanding the claims of industrial policy advocates. It also can provide the basis for a theory of occupational segregation and discrimination that will not be eroded by market forces. Finally, the model provides the basis for a theory of involuntary unemployment. Copyright 1986 by University of Chicago Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper examines the recent dramatic increase in the ratio of US non-financial debt to GNP. It concludes that it is largely the result of federal budget deficits. There does not appear to have been a major change in traditional patterns of private sector borrowing in recent years. The excessive accumulation of Federal debt probably threatens financial stability more than recent increases in private debt.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["This note demonstrates that Bennett McCallum's recent critique of low frequency estimates of macro-economic relationships is of little empirical significance. It also demonstrates that readily available and frequently used techniques can be used to diagnose the problem McCallum raises. Finally, it shows that the standard critique of expectational distributed lags is not warranted once the role of learning by economic agents is recognized.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [" Although recent research suggests that intergenerational transfers play an important role in aggregate capital accumulation, our under standing of bequest motives remains incomplete. The authors develop a simple model of strategic bequests in which a testator influences the decisions of his beneficiaries by holding wealth in bequeathable forms and by conditioning the division of bequests on the beneficiaries' actions. The model generates falsifiable empirical predictions that are inconsistent with other theories of intergenerational transfers. The authors present econometric and other evidence that strongly suggests that bequests are often used as compensation for services rendered by beneficiaries. Copyright 1986 by University of Chicago Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper examines the potential influence of changing volatility in stock market prices on the level of stock market prices. It demonstrates that volatility is only weakly serially correlated, implying that shocks to volatility do not persist. These shocks can therefore have only a small impact on stockmarket prices, since changes in volatility affect expected required rates of return for relatively short intervals. These findings lead us to be skeptical of recent claims that the stock market's poor performance during the 1970's can be explained by volatility-induced increases in risk premia.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' In classical macroeconomic models with flexible wages and prices, whether a tax is levied on producers or consumers does not affect itsultimate incidence. If wages or prices are rigid in the short run, however, then shifting a tax from one side of the market to the othermay have real effects. Tax changes, therefore, provide potential testsfor the presence of nominal rigidities. This paper examines the priceand output effects of revenue-neutral shifts between direct and indirect taxation. The results provide evidence against the view thatwages and prices are completely flexible in the short run. Copyright 1986 by American Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Modern neoclassical theories of the business cycle posit that aggregate fluctuations in consumption and employment are the consequence of dynamic optimizing behavior by economic agents who face no quantity constraint. In this paper, we estimate an explicit model :f this type. In particular, we assume that the observed fluctuations correspond to the decisions of an optimizing representative individual. This individual has a stable utility function which is additively separable over time but not necessarily additively separable in consumption and leisure. We estimate three first order conditions which represent three margins on which the individual is optimizing. He can trade off present consumption for future consumption, present leisure for future leisure and present consumption for present leisure. Our results show that the aggregate U.S. data are extremely reluctant to be characterized by a model of this type. Not only are the overidentifying restrictions statistically rejected but, in addition, the estimated utility function is often not concave. Even when it is concave the estimates imply that either consumption or leisure is an inferior good.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["This paper uses British data to examine the effects of dividend taxes on investors' relative valuation of dividends and capital gains. British data offer great potential to illuminate the dividends and taxes question, since there have been two radical changes and several minor reforms in British dividend tax policy during the last twenty-five years. Studying the relationship between dividends and stockprice movements during different tax regimes offers an ideal controlled experiment for assessing the effects of taxes on investors' valuation of dividends. Using daily data on a small sample of firms, and monthly data on a much broader sample, we find clear evidence that taxes change equilibrium relationships between dividend yields and market returns. These findings suggest that taxes are important determinants of security market equilibrium, and deepen the puzzle of why firms pay dividends.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper reconsiders the effects of taxation on risky assets, recognizing the importance of variations in asset prices. We show that earlier analyses which assumed that depreciation rates are constant and that the future price of capital goods is known with certainty are very misleading, as guides to the effects of corporate taxes. We then examine the concept of economic depreciation in a risky environment, and show that depreciation allowances, if set ex-ante, should be adjusted to take account of future asset price risk. Some empirical calculations suggest that these adjustments are large, and have important implications for the burdens of, and non-neutralities in, the corporate income tax.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper examines the hypothesis that financial markets are myopic by studying the term structure of interest rates. White rejecting decisively the traditional expectations hypothesis regarding the term structure, our statistical results also lead us to conclude that long term interest rates do not overreact to either the level or the change in short termrates. This finding suggests that participants in bond markets are not myopic or overly sensitive to recent events. Our statistical results also suggest that most variations in the yield curve reflect changes in liquidity premia rather than expected changes in interest rates.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper reviews theoretical argumrents and empirical evidence regarding the interest elasticity of savings. It concludes that there are strong theoretical reasons to expect an increase in after tax rates of return to increase private savings. Moreover, the empirical rrethods used in most previous studies are likely to produce underestimates of the interestelasticity of savings. New evidence based on direct estimation of utility function parameters suggests that savings are likely to be highly interest elastic. The paper concludes by noting that too little time has passed to evaluate the effects of the savings incentives contained in recent tax legislation.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Taxes on corporate distributions have traditionally been regarded as a "double tax" on corporate income. This view implies that while the total effective tax rate on corporate source income affects real economic decisions, the distribution of this tax burden between the shareholders and the corporation is irrelevant. Recent research has suggested an alter- native to this traditional view. One explanation of why firms in the U.S. pay dividends in spite of the heavy tax liabilities associated with this form of distribution is that the stock market capitalizes the tax payments associated with corporate distributions. This capitalization leaves investors indifferent at the margin between corporations paying our dividends and retaining earnings. This alternative view holds that while changes in the dividend tax rate will affect shareholder wealth, they will have no impact on corporate investment decisions. This paper develops econometric tests which distinguish between these two views of dividend taxation. By extending Tobin\'s "q" theory of investment to incorporate taxes at both the corporate and personal levels, the implications of each view for corporate investment decisions can be derived. The competing views may be tested by comparing the performance of investment equations estimates under each theory\'s predict ions. British time series data are particularly appropriate for testing hypotheses about dividend taxes because of the substantial postwar variation in effective tax rates on corporate distributions. The econometric results suggest that dividend taxes have important effects on investment decisions.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["This paper uses newly available data from the Social Security Administration's Retirement History Survey to examine the adequacy of saving. This data source is particularly rich; survey data for respondents covering the ydars 1969, 197 1( and 1953 have been matched with Social Security earnings records covering the years dating back to 1951. In addition to information on the path of lifetime earnhngs, the survey contains extensive data on individual asset holdings. The evidence indicates that surprisingly few couples currantly suffer significant reductions in their standard of living in their old age. This appears due, in large part, to our compulsory savings institutions, the Social Security and private pension systems. These institutions have succeeded in redistributing the lifetime consumption of private individuals from their youth to their old age.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper examines the relative importance of timing and persistence elements in explaining cyclical fluctuations in labor supply. Data from the natural experiment provided by World War I1 and cross-sectional data on American local labor markets, as well as aggregate time-series data are used in the empirical work. We find little evidence that timing effects play an important role in labor market dynamics. The evidence suggests that views emphasizing persistence are more accurate, and that previous employment tends to raise the probability of subsequent employment.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper suggests that to a large extent. the increases in the value of housing and decreases in the value of corporate capital may have a common explanation, the inter- action of inflation and a nonindexed tax system. The acceleration of inflation has sharply increased the effective rate of taxation of corporate capital income, while reducing the effective taxation of owner- occupied housing. These changes have been capitalized in the form of changing asset prices. In the long run, they will lead to significant changes in the size and composition of the capital stock. The first section of the paper describes in more detail the nonneutralities caused by inflation. A simple model showing how inflation and taxation interact to determine asset prices is presented in the second section. The third section presents some crude empirical tests suggesting that increases in the expected rate of inflation may account for a significant part of the asset price changes which have been observed. A final section concludes the paper by commenting on some implications of the results.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper considers the problem of optimal long run monetary policy. It shows that optimal inflation policy involves trading off two quite different considerations. First, increases in the rate of inflation tax the holding of many balances, leading to a deadweight loss as excessive resources are devoted to economizing on cash balances. Second, increases in the rate of inflation raise capital intensity. As long as the economy has a capital stock short of the golden rule level, increases in capita intensity raise the level of consumption. Ignoring the second consideration leads to the common recommendation that the money growth rate be set so that the nominal interest rate is zero. Taking it into account can lead to significant modifications in the "full liquidity rule." Inter-actions of inflation policy with financial intermediation and taxation are also considered. The results taken together suggest that inflation can have important welfare effects, and that optimal inflation policy is an empirical question, which depends on the structure of the economy.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Demographic differences in patterns of employment variation over the business cycle are examined in this paper. Three primary conclusions emerge. First, both participation and unemployment must be considered in any analysis of cyclical changes in the labor market. Second, young people bear a disproportionate share of cyclical employment variation. Third, failure to consider participation has led to undue pessimism about the effect of aggregate demand policy on high unemployment groups. If participation did not surge, reduction in overall unemployment to its 1969 level would reduce the unemployment of almost all demographic groups to very low levels.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper uses historicaI U.S. data to directly estimate the contribution of intergenerational transfers to aggregate capital accumulation. The evidence presented indicates that intergenerational transfers account for the vast majority of aggregate U .S. capital formation; only a negligible fraction of actual capital accumulation can be traced u, life-cycle or "hump" savings. A major difference between this study and previous investigations of this issue is the use of more accurate longitudinal age-earnings and age-consumption profiles. These profiles are simply too flat to generate substantial lifecycle savings. This paper suggests the importance of and need for substantially greater research and data collection on intergenerational transfers. fife-cycle models of savings that emphasize savings for retirement as the dominant form of apical accumulation should give way to models that illuminate the determinants of intergenerational transfers.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Although the return to capital is a focus of research in both macroeconomics and public finance, each specialty has approached this subject with an almost total disregard for the other's contribution. Macroeconomic studies of the effect of inflation on the rate of interest have implicitly ignored the existence of taxes and the problems of tax depreciation. Similarly, empirical studies of the incidence of corporate tax changes have not recognized that the effect of the tax depends on the rate of inflation and have ignored the information on the rate of return that investors receive in financial markets. Our primary purpose in this paper is to begin to build a bridge between these two approaches to a common empirical problem.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.']