 ['If inflation expectations become firmly anchored at the inflation target even when average inflation deviates from the target, the long-run Phillips curve becomes nonvertical. During 1997-2011, average inflation expectations in Sweden have been close to the inflation target of 2 percent, whereas average inflation has fallen short of the target by 0.6 percentage points. The estimates reported suggest that the slope of the long-run Phillips curve is about 0.75. Then the average unemployment rate has been about 0.8 percentage points higher than if average inflation had been on target. This is a large unemployment cost of undershooting the inflation target. (JEL D84, E24, E31, E52, E58)'] ['Should inflation targeting involve some leaning against the wind? Sweden provides a case study, since the Riksbank has been leaning against the wind since 2010, stating concerns about risks associated with the household debt-to-income ratio. The cost of this policy in terms of low inflation and high unemployment is high. According to the Riksbank\xe2\x80\x99s own analysis, the policy rate effect on household indebtedness is very small, and any effect on risks associated with household debt is miniscule. Indeed, much lower inflation than expected has increased households\xe2\x80\x99 debt burden and, if anything, increased such risks.'] ['This paper studies the trade-offs between stabilizing CPI inflation and alternative measures of the output gap in Ramses, the Riksbank\xd7\xb3s estimated dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) model of a small open economy. Our main finding is that the trade-off between stabilizing CPI inflation and the output gap strongly depends on which concept of potential output in the output gap between output and potential output is used in the loss function. If potential output is defined as a smooth trend this trade-off is much more pronounced compared to the case when potential output is defined as the output level that would prevail if prices and wages were flexible.'] [' The monetary policy mandate for the Federal Reserve and of the Riksbank are essentially the same and boil down to stabilizing inflation around the inflation target and employment or unemployment around a long\xe2\x80\x90run sustainable rate. The relative weight on stabilizing unemployment or employment versus stabilizing inflation may be close to one. A positive unemployment\xe2\x80\x90gap forecast normally calls for a positive inflation\xe2\x80\x90gap forecast.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["In the summer of 2010, the Federal Reserve's and the Swedish Riksbank's inflation forecasts were below the former's mandate-consistent rate and the latter's target, respectively, and their unemployment forecasts were above sustainable rates. Given the mandates of the Federal Reserve and the Riksbank, conditions in both countries clearly called for policy easing. The Federal Reserve maintained a minimum policy rate, soon started to communicate possible future easing, and in the fall launched QE2. In contrast, the Riksbank started a period of rapid tightening. I examine the arguments that were raised in opposition to the Federal Reserve's easing, and those for the Riksbank's tightening. Although the Swedish economy subsequently performed better than expected, probably an important reason was that the market implemented much easier financial conditions than were consistent with the Riksbank's policy rate path. Without the policy tightening, performance would have been even better. The U.S. economy meanwhile performed worse than expected because of factors other than monetary policy. Without the policy easing, performance would have been even worse. Thus, the Federal Reserve appears to have followed its mandate in the summer of 2010, and subsequent adverse economic shocks contributed to weak performance of the U.S. economy. In contrast, the Riksbank appears to have deviated from its mandate, but favorable circumstances contributed to an economic outcome with better performance than might have been expected based on policy choices.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['This paper specifies a new convenient algorithm to construct policy projections conditional on alternative anticipated policy rate paths in linearized dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) models, such as Ramses, the Riksbank\xe2\x80\x99s main DSGE model. Such projections with anticipated policy rate paths correspond to situations where the central bank transparently announces that it, conditional on current information, plans to implement a particular policy rate path and where this announced plan for the policy rate is believed and then anticipated by the private sector. The main idea of the algorithm is to include among the predetermined variables (the \xe2\x80\x9cstate\xe2\x80\x9d of the economy) the vector of non-zero means of future shocks to a given policy rule that is required to satisfy the given anticipated policy rate path.'] ["We show how to construct optimal policy projections in Ramses, the Riksbank's open-economy medium-sized DSGE model for forecasting and policy analysis. Bayesian estimation of the parameters of the model indicates that they are relatively invariant to alternative policy assumptions and supports that the model may be regarded as structural in a stable low inflation environment. Past policy of the Riksbank until 2007:3 (the end of the sample used) is better explained as following a simple instrument rule than as optimal policy under commitment. We show and discuss the differences between policy projections for the estimated instrument rule and for optimal policy under commitment, under alternative definitions of the output gap, different initial values of the Lagrange multipliers representing policy in a timeless perspective, and different weights in the central-bank loss function.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' I discuss what determines the effective lower bound (ELB) for the policy rate and argue that the ELB is not hard, but rather soft, and that it is probably slightly negative. I argue that, at the ELB, current output can be increased by (i) monetary policy that extends the period of credibly low policy rates and generates inflation expectations, (ii) financial-stability policy-which is distinct from monetary policy-that reduces the spreads between market interest rates and the policy rate, and (iii) fiscal policy that increases the neutral real rate by reducing expected growth of government expenditure and increases potential output by increasing current government expenditure. Copyright (c) 2010 The Ohio State University.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper studies the design of optimal monetary policy under uncertainty using a Markov jump-linear-quadratic (MJLQ) approach. To approximate the uncertainty that policymakers face, the authors use different discrete modes in a Markov chain and take mode-dependent linear-quadratic approximations of the underlying model. This allows the authors to apply a powerful methodology with convenient solution algorithms that they have developed. They apply their methods to analyze the effects of uncertainty and potential gains from experimentation for two sources of uncertainty in the New Keynesian Phillips curve. The examples highlight that learning may have sizable effects on losses and, although it is generally beneficial, it need not always be so. The experimentation component typically has little effect and in some cases it can lead to attenuation of policy.'] ['Central banks target CPI inflation; independent central banks are concerned about their balance sheet and the level of their capital. The first fact makes it difficult for a central bank to implement the optimal escape from a liquidity trap, because it undermines a commitment to overshoot the inflation target. We show that the second fact provides a solution. Capital concerns provide a mechanism for an independent central bank to commit to inflate ex post. The optimal policy can take the form of a currency depreciation combined with a crawling peg, a policy advocated by Svensson as the "Foolproof Way" to escape from a liquidity trap. (JEL E31, E52, E58, E62)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper demonstrates how time consistency of the Ramsey policy-the optimal fiscal and monetary policy under commitment-can be achieved. Each government should leave its successor with a unique maturity structure for nominal and indexed debt, such that the marginal benefit of a surprise inflation exactly balances the marginal cost. Unlike in earlier papers on the topic, the result holds for quite general Ramsey policies, including time-varying polices with positive inflation and positive nominal interest rates. We compare our results with those in Persson, Persson, and Svensson (1987), Calvo and Obstfeld (1990), and Alvarez, Kehoe, and Neumeyer (2004). Copyright The Econometric Society 2006.'] ['We outline a method to provide advice on optimal monetary policy while taking policymakers\xe2\x80\x99 judgment into account. The method constructs optimal policy projections (OPPs) by extracting the judgment terms that allow a model, such as the Federal Reserve Board staff economic model, FRB/US, to reproduce a forecast, such as the Greenbook forecast. Given an intertemporal loss function that represents monetary policy objectives, OPPs are the projections \xe2\x80\x94 of target variables, instruments, and other variables of interest \xe2\x80\x94 that minimize that loss function for given judgment terms. The method is illustrated by revisiting the economy of early 1997 as seen in the Greenbook forecasts of February 1997 and November 1999. In both cases, we use the vintage of the FRB/US model that was in place at that time. These two particular forecasts were chosen, in part, because they were at the beginning and the peak, respectively, of the late 1990s boom period. As such, they differ markedly in their implied judgments of the state of the world in 1997 and our OPPs illustrate this difference. For a conventional loss function, our OPPs provide significantly better performance than Taylor-rule simulations.'] ['In their paper "Targeting versus Instrument Rules for Monetary Policy," McCallum and Nelson critique targeting rules for the analysis of monetary policy. Their arguments are rebutted here. First, McCallum and Nelson\'s preference to study the robustness of simple monetary policy rules is no reason at all to limit attention to simple instrument rules; simple targeting rules may have more desirable properties. Second, optimal targeting rules are a compact, robust, and structural description of goal-directed monetary policy, analogous to the compact, robust, and structural consumption Euler conditions in the theory of consumption. They express the very robust condition of equality of the marginal rates of substitution and transformation between the central bank\'s target variables. Indeed, they provide desirable micro foundations of monetary policy. Third, under realistic information assumptions, the instrument rule analog to any targeting rule that McCallum and Nelson have proposed results in very large instrument rate volatility and is also, for other reasons, inferior to a targeting rule.'] ['"Forecast targeting", forward-looking monetary policy that uses central-bank judgment to construct optimal policy projections of the target variables and the instrument rate, may perform substantially better than monetary policy that disregards judgment and follows a given instrument rule. This is demonstrated in a few examples for two empirical models of the U.S. economy, one forward looking and one backward looking. A complicated infinite-horizon central-bank projection model of the economy can be closely approximated by a simple finite system of linear equations, which is easily solved for the optimal policy projections. Optimal policy projections corresponding to the optimal policy under commitment in a timeless perspective can easily be constructed. The whole projection path of the instrument rate is more important than the current instrument setting. The resulting reduced-form reaction function for the current instrument rate is a very complex function of all inputs in the monetary-policy decision process, including the central bank\xe2\x80\x99s judgment. It cannot be summarized as a simple reaction function such as a Taylor rule. Fortunately, it need not be made explicit.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The optimal weights on indicators in models with partial information about the state of the economy and forward-looking variables are derived and interpreted, both for equilibria under discretion and under commitment. The private sector is assumed to have information about the state of the economy that the policymaker does not possess. Certainty-equivalence is shown to apply, in the sense that optimal policy reactions to optimally estimated states of the economy are independent of the degree of uncertainty. The usual separation principle does not hold, since the estimation of the state of the economy is not independent of optimization and is in general quite complex. We present a general characterization of optimal filtering and control in settings of this kind, and discuss an application of our methods to the problem of the optimal use of "real-time" macroeconomic data in the conduct of monetary policy.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This Paper examines inflation indicators for the euro area by studying the relationship between inflation, output, money and interest rates, using data spanning 1980-2001. The central finding is that both the output gap and the real money gap (the difference between the real money stock and the long-run equilibrium real money stock) contain considerable information regarding future inflation. In contrast, the Eurosystem\xe2\x80\x99s money-growth indicator (the difference between nominal money growth and a reference value), the prominent \xe2\x80\x98first pillar\xe2\x80\x99 in its monetary strategy, contains little information about future inflation, and no information beyond that contained in the output and real money gaps. The predictive performance of the output gap has improved compared to that in a previous version of this Paper, most likely because of better estimation methods.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["A new strand of macroeconomic literature examines the relationship between learning and monetary policy-how monetary policymakers learn about the economy as they try to achieve their goals, how the public learns about policymakers' objectives, and how the public's learning, in turn, changes the way monetary policy works. An Atlanta Fed conference in March 2003 brought together some of the main contributors to this emerging literature. ; In the conference keynote address, reprinted here, Lars Svensson focused on what constitutes good monetary policy and how it is related to central-bank learning, how private-sector learning benefits from central-bank transparency, and how good monetary policy is best modeled. ; Good central banks, he noted, engage in forecast targeting: setting interest rates so that their projections of inflation and the output gap are consistent with their objectives. In particular, he argued, good central banks must devote considerable resources to monitoring and extracting private-sector expectations from various sources, use these expectations among other inputs in the forecasting process, and respond appropriately when the expectations affect the central bank's projections of inflation and the output gap. ; Svensson also stressed that central-bank transparency can improve private-sector learning and thereby induce better private-sector decisions. ; Finally, Svensson emphasized that good monetary policy is best modeled in the same way the private sector is modeled-not with ad hoc reaction functions, or instrument rules, but as goal-directed, optimizing policy with the help of targeting rules."] ['It is argued that inflation targeting is best understood as a commitment to a targeting rule rather than an instrument rule, either a general targeting rule (explicit objectives for monetary policy) or a specific targeting rule (a criterion for the forecasts of the target variables to be fulfilled), essentially the equality of the marginal rates of transformation and substitution between the target variables. Targeting rules allow the use of judgment and extra model information, are more robust and easier to verify than optimal instrument rules, and can bring the economy close to the socially optimal equilibrium.'] ['Existing proposals to escape from a liquidity trap and deflation, including my "Foolproof Way," are discussed in the light of the optimal way to escape. The optimal way involves three elements: (1) an explicit central-bank commitment to a higher future price level; (2) a concrete action that demonstrates the central bank\'s commitment, induces expectations of a higher future price level and jump-starts the economy; and (3) an exit strategy that specifies when and how to get back to normal. A currency depreciation is a direct consequence of expectations of a higher future price level and hence an excellent indicator of those expectations. Furthermore, an intentional currency depreciation and a crawling peg, as in the Foolproof Way, can implement the optimal way and, in particular, induce the desired expectations of a higher future price level. I conclude that the Foolproof Way is likely to work well for Japan, which is in a liquidity trap now, as well as for the euro area and the United States, in case either would fall into a liquidity trap in the future.'] ['The paper discusses how current inflation targeting should be modeled, and argues that it is better represented as a commitment to a targeting rule (a rule specifying operational objectives for monetary policy or a condition for the target variables), than as a commitment to a simple instrument rule (like a Taylor rule).<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" We examine a central bank's endogenous choice of degree of control and degree of transparency, under both commitment and discretion. We argue that discretion is the more realistic assumption for the choice of control and that commitment is more realistic for the choice of transparency. For the choice of control, under discretion maximum degree of control is the only equilibrium. For the choice of transparency, under commitment, a sufficiently patient bank with sufficiently low average inflation bias will always choose minimum transparency. Thus, a maximum feasible degree of control with a minimum degree of transparency is a likely outcome. The Bundesbank and the Federal Reserve System are, arguably, examples of this."] ["Monetary policy can achieve average inflation equal to a given inflation target and, at best, a good compromise between inflation variability and output-gap variability. Monetary policy cannot completely stabilize either inflation or the output gap. Increased credibility in the form of inflation expectations anchored on the inflation target will reduce the variability of inflation and the output gap. Central banks can improve transparency and accountability by specifying not only an inflation target but also the dislike of output-gap variability relative to inflation variability. Central banks can best achieve both the long-run inflation target and the best compromise between inflation and output-gap stability by engaging in forecast targeting,' where the bank selects the feasible combination of inflation and output-gap projections that minimize the loss function and the corresponding instrument-rate plan and sets the instrument-rate accordingly. Forecast targeting implies that the instrument responds to all information that significantly affects the projections of inflation and the output gap. Therefore it cannot be expressed in terms of a simple instrument rule, like a Taylor rule. The objective of financial stability, including a well-functioning payment system, can conveniently be considered as a restriction on monetary policy that does not bind in normal times, but does bind in times of financial crises. By producing and publishing Financial Stability Reports with indicators of financial stability, the central bank can monitor the degree of financial stability and issue warnings to concerned agents and authorities in due time and this way avoid deteriorating financial stability. Forecast targeting implies that asset-price developments and potential asset-price bubbles are taken into account and responded to the extent that they are deemed to affect the projections of the target variables, inflation and the output gap. In most cases, it will be difficult to make<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["Using a small empirical model of inflation, output, and money estimated on U.S. data, we compare the relative performance of monetary targeting and inflation targeting. The results show that monetary targeting would be quite inefficient, with both higher inflation and output variability. This is true even with a deterministic money demand formulation. In this framework, there is thus no support for the prominent role given to money growth in the Eurosystem's monetary policy strategy.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['The paper examines the transmission mechanism of monetary policy in an open economy with and without a binding zero bound on nominal interest rates. In particular, a foolproof way of escaping from a liquidity trap is suggested, consisting of a price-level target path, a devaluation of the currency and a temporary exchange rate peg, which is later abandoned in favor of price-level or inflation targeting when the price-level target has been reached. This will jump-start the economy and escape deflation by a real depreciation of the domestic currency, a lower long real interest rate, and increased inflation expectations. The abandonment of the exchange rate peg and the shift to price-level or inflation targeting will avoid the risk of overheating. Some conclusions for Japan are included.'] [' Seitz and T\xc3\x8edter argue, counter to Svensson, that the P* model provides a rationale for money-growth targeting. In particular, they argue that \'money growth targeting is a special form of inflation forecast targeting based on a "limited" information set. In contrast to "full information" inflation forecast targeting, money growth targeting is likely to be more robust under changing conditions of the real world\'. Copyright Verein f\xc3\xbc Socialpolitik and Blackwell Publishers Ltd 2001.'] ['In May 2000, the Government announced that the New Zealand monetary policy framework would be reviewed. Professor Lars Svensson of Stockholm University was appointed to undertake the review and to report by the end of February 2001.'] [" We define and study transparency, credibility, and reputation in a model where the central bank's characteristics are unobservable to the private sector and inferred from the policy outcome. Increased transparency makes the bank's reputation and credibility more sensitive to its actions. This moderates the bank's policy and induces the bank to follow a policy closer to the socially optimal one. Full transparency of the central bank's intentions is generally socially beneficial but frequently worse for the bank. Somewhat paradoxically, direct observability of idiosyncratic central bank goals removes the moderating influence on the bank and leads to the worst equilibrium."] ["This paper is a brief evaluation of the Eurosystem's monetary-policy regime after its first year, in particular of the extent to which it is similar to inflation targeting as practiced by an increasing number of central banks. I examine the Eurosystem's goals, framework for monetary-policy decisions and communication with outsiders. Criteria for evaluation are whether the goals are unambiguous and appropriate; whether the decision framework is efficient in collecting and processing information and reaching decisions that are appropriate relative to the goals; and whether the communication is effective in motivating decisions, simplifying external evaluation and thereby improving transparency and accountability. I also consider whether the actual instrument setting has been appropriate, given the information available at the times of decision.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [" The so-called P* model is frequently used or referred to in discussions of monetary targeting. This gives the impression that the P* model might provide some rationale for monetary targeting or for the monetary reference value used by the Eurosystem. The P* model implies that inflation is determined by the level of and changes in the `real money gap' (the deviation of current real balances from their long-run equilibrium level), and hence that the real money gap is an important indicator for future inflation. Nevertheless, the P* model does not seem to provide any rationale for either a Bundesbank-style money-growth target or a Eurosystem-style money-growth indicator. Copyright Verein f\xc3\xbc Socialpolitik and Blackwell Publishers Ltd 2000."] ['The optimal weights on indicators in models with partial information about the state of the economy and forward-looking variables are derived and interpreted, both for equilibria under discretion and under commitment. An example of optimal monetary policy with a partially observable potential output and a forward-looking indicator is examined. The optimal response to the optimal estimate of potential output displays certainty-equivalence, whereas the optimal response to the imperfect observation of output depends on the noise in this observation.'] ['The paper examines inflation targeting in a small open economy with forward-looking aggregate supply and demand with microfoundations, and with stylised realistic lags in the different monetary-policy transmission channels. The paper compares strict and flexible targeting of CPI and domestic inflation and inflation-targeting reaction functions and the Taylor rule. Flexible CPI-inflation targeting does not only limit the variability of CPI inflation but also the variability of the output gap and the real exchange rate. Negative productivity supply shocks and positive demand shocks have similar effects on inflation and the output gap and induce similar monetary policy responses.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The purpose of the paper is to survey and discuss inflation targeting in the context of monetary policy rules. The paper provides a general conceptual discussion of monetary policy rules, attempts to clarify the essential characteristics of inflation targeting, compares inflation targeting to the other monetary policy rules, and draws some conclusions for the monetary policy of the European system of Central Banks.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Previous analyses of the implementation of inflation targeting are extended to monetary policy responses to different shocks, consequences of model uncertainty, and effects of interest rate smoothing and stabilization. Model uncertainty, output stabilization, and interest rate stabilization or smoothing all call for a more gradual adjustment of the conditional inflation forecast toward the inflation target. The conditional inflation forecast is the natural intermediate target during inflation targeting. The optimal way of reacting to shocks is hence to check how they affect the inflation forecast and then take the appropriate action. Copyright 1999 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics.'] ["The paper discusses the choice between inflation targeting and monetary targeting as a strategy for the Eurosystem, the actual strategy the Eurosystem announced in the fall of 1998, the framework for policy decisions appropriate for achieving the goals of the Eurosystem, the role of exchange rate management in the EMU, and the accountability and transparency of the Eurosystem. The choice between inflation targeting and monetary targeting is, in effect, a choice between high and low transparency. Inflation targeting and monetary targeting, in practice, imply similar policy decisions, but monetary targeting implies that policy decisions are explained in terms of money-growth developments that are not essential for policy. The Eurosystem has specified an operational inflation target, although in a somewhat ambiguous way. More importantly, its announced monetary strategy is deficient, since it proposes a prominent role for an essentially irrelevant money-growth indicator in analysis and communication, but will keep secret the inflation forecast that will, in practice, be the decisive input in policy decisions. Exchange rate policy is controlled by the Council of Finance Ministers in the EMU; this is a major inconsistency in the Maastricht Treaty and a possible threat to the independence of the Eurosystem. The European Parliament may have a crucial role in ensuring the accountability of the Eurosystem; the minimum transparency needed for effective outside monitoring and evaluation of the Eurosystem's policy decisions seem to require published inflation forecasts and, most likely, published minutes and voting records of the Governing Council.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['The paper discusses several issues related to how monetary policy should be conducted in an era of price stability. Low inflation (with base drift in the price level) and price-level stability (without such base drift) are compared, and a suitable loss function (corresponding to flexible inflation targeting) is discussed, including the index and level for the inflation target. Three ways of maintaining price stability are examined, namely (1) a commitment to a simple instrument rule, (2) "forecast targeting," and (3) monetary targeting. Both (1) and (3) are found to be inferior to forecast targeting. The benefits of credibility (private inflation expectations coinciding with the inflation target) are discussed. Credibility improves the tradeoff between inflation variability, output-gap variability and instrument variability and makes it easier for the central bank to meet is inflation target. The threat of deflation and a liquidity trap is examined. Transparent inflation targeting and a contingency plan with emergency measures, including a coordinated fiscal and monetary expansion, are likely to avoid a liquidity trap, but also contribute to escaping from one if already trapped.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Price level targeting (without base drift) and inflation targeting (with base drift) are compared with persistence in output (generated by sticky prices, for instance). Counter to conventional wisdom, price level targeting results in lower short-run inflation variability than inflation targeting (if output is at least moderately persistent). Price level targeting also eliminates any average inflation bias. Even if the preferences of society correspond to inflation targeting, it may nevertheless prefer to assign price level targeting to the central bank. Price level targeting thus appears to have more advantages than what is commonly acknowledged.'] ["Policy rules that are consistent with inflation targeting are examined in a small macroeconometric model of the US economy. We compare the properties and outcomes of explicit 'instrument rules' as well as 'targeting rules'. The latter, which imply implicit instrument rules, may be closer to actual operating procedures of inflation-targeting central banks. We find that inflation forecasts are central for good policy rules under inflation targeting. Some simple instrument and targeting rules do remarkably well relative to the optimal rule; others, including some that are often used as representing inflation targeting, do less well.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['The paper discusses the implementation of inflation-targeting across countries. It argues that the intermediate variable under an inflation target is, in effect, the inflation forecast. Such a regime is shown to confer benefits over other regimes, such as money and exchange rate targeting: in terms of the efficient implementation of policy; in terms of transparency; and in terms of the stabilisation of inflation and output.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" Inflation-targeting regimes (like those of New Zealand, Canada, the United Kingdom, and Sweden) are interpreted as having explicit inflation targets and implicit employment targets. Without employment persistence, an 'inflation-target-conservative' central bank eliminates the inflation bias, mimics an optimal inflation contract, and dominates a Rogoff 'weight-conservative' central bank. With employment persistence, a state-contingent inflation bias and a stabilization bias also arise. A constant inflation target and a constant inflation contract are still equivalent. A state-contingent inflation target combined with a weight-conservative central bank can achieve the equilibrium corresponding to an optimal rule under commitment. Copyright 1997 by American Economic Association."] ["Central banks have several reasons for extracting information from asset prices. Asset prices may embody more accurate and more up-to-date macroeconomic data than what is currently published or directly available to policy makers. Aberrations in some asset prices may indicate imperfections or manipulations relevant for banking and financial market surveillance. Especially, asset prices will reflect market participants' expectations about the future, which is the focus of this paper.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The authors compare estimation of spot and implied forward interest rates from Swedish Treasury bill and government bond yields with two functional forms, the simple Nelson and Siegel (NS) and the complex Longstaff and Schwartz (LS). Monetary policy rather than financial analysis is in focus, which affects the evaluation criteria. NS is easier to use and has better convergence properties. LS is more flexible. For the data used, estimates using NS and LS are close, with at most only marginally better fit for LS. The fit of NS seems satisfactory for monetary policy purposes. Copyright 1996 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics.'] [" Expected rates of devaluation for the French franc/Deutsche mark exchange rate during the EMS are estimated using the 'drift adjustment' method. Exchange rates within the band display strong mean reversion. The adjustment term, the expected rate of depreciation within the band, is often of the same magnitude as interest rate differentials. Bilateral exchange rate limits towards other ERM currencies have a significant and sizeable effect on estimated expected rates of devaluation. The behavior of estimated expected rates of depreciation within the band accords fairly well with the theoretical model of Bertola and Svensson (1993). Estimated expected rates of devaluation to some extent predict actual realignments. Copyright 1995 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics."] ['Realignment expectations which measure exchange rate credibility are analyzed for European exchange rates, using daily financial data since the inception of the EMS. It is difficult to find economically meaningful relationships between realignment expectations and macroeconomic variables, although there are signs that lower inflation improves credibility. Statistically, many movements to realignment expectations are common to ERM participants. There were few indications of poor ERM credibility before late August 1992; the dimensions of the currency crisis of September 1992 appear to have taken both policy-makers and private agents largely by surprise.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["This paper discusses what we have learned from last year's currency crises in the ERM and Nordic countries about fixed exchange rates as a means to achieve price stability. After discussing the explanations for the crises, the paper concludes that fixed exchange rates are not a short cut to price stability. Monetary stability and credibility have to be built at home and cannot easily be imported from abroad. Fixed exchange rates are more fragile and difficult to maintain than previously thought. They may even be in conflict with price stability, by inducing a procyclical destabilizing monetary policy, and by inducing an inflation bias. Building monetary credibility is even more important with flexible exchange rates.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We examine the expected survival time of a unilateral exchange rate target zone, when constraints on monetary policy prevent the central bank from exclusively focusing on defending the target zone. In general, the width of the target zone has a negligible effect on the expected survival time, and the dominant determinants are reserve levels and the degree of real and monetary divergence between the country in question and the rest of the world. For seemingly realistic parameters, the expected survival time is fairly long: a few decades rather than a few years.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["The paper argues that real world fixed exchange rate regimes usually have finite bands instead of completely fixed exchange rates between realignments because exchange rate bands, contrary to the textbook result, give central banks some monetary independence even with free international capital mobility. The nature and amount of monetary independence is specified, informally and in a formal model, and quantified with Swedish krona data. The amount of monetary independence thus achieved appears sizeable. For instance, an increase in the Swedish krona band from zero to about +2% may reduce the krona interest rate's standard deviation by about 1/2.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [" A time-varying stochastic devaluation risk is introduced in a model of exchange rate target zones. The model produces realistic patterns of covariation between exchange rates and interest rate differentials, which previous target zone models have been unable to do. A 'drift adjustment' method to estimate devaluation expectations from data is suggested. Copyright 1993 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The paper presents estimates of devaluation expectations for six EMS currencies relative to the Deutsche mark, for the period March 1979-May 1990. The estimation method is simple and operational, and consistently generates sensible results. The estimates are constructed by the adjusting interest rate differentials by subtracting estimated expected rates of depreciation within the exchange rate band. The adjustment is nontrivial because exchange rates within ERM bands display mean reversion rather than random walk (unit root) behavior. The adjustment is essential since expected rates of depreciation within the band are usually of about the same magnitude as interest rate differentials.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" Devaluation expectations for the Swedish krona are estimated for the period 1985 to 1992 using daily data for exchange rates and interest rates. The 90 percent confidence intervals for these estimates obtained by the 'drift-adjustment' method suggested by Giuseppe Bertola and Lars E. O. Svensson (1993) are substantially narrower than the '100 percent confidence intervals' obtained by the 'simplest test' described by Svensson (1991). Estimates for various maturities are used to infer the expected timing of devaluations. Copyright 1993 by Royal Economic Society."] ["The foreign exchange risk premium in an exchange rate target zone regime with devaluation/realignment risks is derived. In contrast to previous literature, the exchange rate's heteroscedasticity within the bard, as well as a separate devaluation/realignment risk, is taken into account. The risk premium is then the sum of two separate risk premia, arising from stochastic exchange rate movements within the bard and from stochastic devaluations/realignments when the band is shifted. Both real and nominal exchange rate premia are considered. The real and nominal risk premia from movements within the band are very small for narrow target zones and can therefore be disregarded. The real and nominal risk premia from devaluations/realignments are larger but still relatively small proportions of the expected rate of devaluation/realignment.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['How do exchange rate bands work compared to completely fixed rates (between realignments); or, more precisely, what are the dynamics of exchange rates, interest rates, and central bank interventions within exchange rate bands? Does the difference between bands and completely fixed exchange rates matter, and if so, which of the two arrangements is best; or, more precisely, what are the tradeoffs that determine the optimal bandwidth? This article will present an interpretation of some selected recent theoretical and empirical research on exchange rate target zones, with emphasis on main ideas and results and without technical detail.'] ['Under the assumption of no arbitrage, the credibility of an exchange rate target zone is tested by whether domestic interest rates fall within "rate-of-return bands" between the maximum and minimum home currency rate of return on a foreign investment in the absence of a devaluation. Under the assumption of uncovered interest parity, credibility is tested by whether expected future exchange rates fall within the exchange rate band. These tests are applied on data on the Swedish target zone from January 1987 through August 1990.'] ["The trade-off between interest rate variability and the width of an exchange rate target zone is examined, using the regulated Brownian motion model of target zones. It is shown that for narrow exchange rate bands, and for reasonable parameter values, the interest rate differential's asymptotic variability is increasing in the width of the exchange rate band; whereas for wide exchange rate bands it is slowly decreasing in this width. The interest rate differential's instantaneous variability is decreasing in the width of the exchange rate band. A narrow target zone differs from a completely fixed exchange rate regime in that the interest rate differential's instantaneous standard deviation is high and even increases when the zone narrows. The model is extended to include a realignment / devaluation risk, as well as an endogenous exchange rate risk premium. The risk premium is small for reasonable parameter values and does not matter much.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["The term structure of interest rate differentials is derived in a model of a small open economy with a target-zone exchange rate regime. The target zone is modelled as a regulated Brownian motion. The interest rate differentials are computed as the solution to a parabolic partial differential equation with derivative boundary conditions, both via a Fourier-series analytical solution and via a direct numerical solution. Several specific properties of the term structure of interest rate differentials are derived. For instance, for given time to maturity the interest rate differential is decreasing in the exchange rate, and for given exchange rate the interest rate differential's absolute value and its instantaneous variability are both decreasing in the time to maturity. Devaluation/realignment risks are incorporated and imply upward shifts of the interest rate differentials. Several implications of the theory are found to be broadly consistent with data on Swedish exchange rates and interest differentials for the period 1986-9.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' A conservative government, in favor of a low level of public consumption, knows that it will be replaced by a government in favor of a larger level of public consumption. The authors show that the resulting level of public consumption is in between the levels the two governments would choose if each were in power both in the present and in the future. In particular, they show that if the conservative government is more stubborn (in a particular sense) than the succeeding government, the conservative government will borrow more than it would had it remained in power in the future. Copyright 1989, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['In a previous paper, "Trade in Risky Assets," I have analyzed the pattern of international trade in risky real assets between barter economies, relying on the Law of Comparative Advantage and using autarky asset price differences to predict the pattern of asset trade. In this paper the analysis is extended to international trade in nominal assets (assets with returns paid in currencies) between monetary economies. The risk characteristics of real returns on nominal assets depend on price level and exchange rate risk, and therefore on monetary policy. It is examined how different combinations of monetary policies and exchange rate regimes affect nominal assets\' return risk characteristics, their autarky prices, and hence their trade pattern, when countries differ with respect to their outputs or their attitudes towards risk. When world asset markets are incomplete, different monetary policies and exchange rate regimes have dramatic effects on risk characteristics of home and foreign currency bonds and on the trade pattern in these assets, as well as on aggregate capital and current accounts.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' A stochastic, two-country, neoclassical, rational-expectations model with sticky prices--optimally set by monopolistically competitive firms--and possible excess capacity is developed to examine international spillover effects on output of monetary disturbances. The Mundell-Fleming model predicts that monetary expansion at home leads to recession abroad. In contrast, the main result is that spillover effects of monetary policy may be either positive or negative, depending upon whether the intertemporal elasticity of substitution in consumption exceeds the intratemporal elasticity of substitution. The model, in addition, is used to determine nominal and real interest rates, exchange rates, and other asset prices. Copyright 1989 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In discussions about different international monetary arrangements it is often maintained that exchange rate variability has a negative influence on international trade and foreign investment. This paper addresses one specific aspect of this general issue, namely the effect of exchange rate variability on capital flows and international portfolio diversification. More precisely, we examine how different monetary policies -- and among those, policies that aim at stabilizing exchange rates -- determine the risk characteristics of nominal assets, and how these risk characteristics determine international portfolio composition and trade in assets, when international asset markets are incomplete.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The authors present a new solution to the time-consistency problem that appears capable of enforcing ex ante policy i n settings where other enforcement mechanisms do not work. The soluti on involves a social contract that specifies the optimal ex ante poli cy and is effectively sold by successive old generations to successiv e young generations, who pay for the social contract through intergen erational transfers. Both old and young generations have an economic incentive to fulfill the social contract. The authors apply the solut ion to show how an equilibrium without excessive capital taxation can be enforced, despite an ongoing temptation to impose ex post capital levies. Copyright 1988 by American Economic Association.'] [' This paper studies banking and financial innovations in a stochasti c general equilibrium model, assuming the existence of two distinct types of goods: cash goods, which can only be purchased by cash, and check goods, which can also be purchased by checks drawn against interest-bearing bank accounts. The authors analyze the effects of changes in the payment s structure (i.e., the share of check goods), reserve requirements on banks, and changes in the supply of reserves. The authors find, e.g., that an increased share of check goods and a decrease of the bank reserve ratio in general both lead to a decrease in the variance of the price level. Copyright 1988 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] [' A theory of the international trade pattern in risky assets is developed by applying the law of comparative advantage to asset trade. According to this l aw, there is a tendency for a country to import assets that have rela tively high autarky prices. It is examined how autarky prices are aff ected by international differences in stochastic properties of output /endowments, the rate of time preference, the degree of risk aversion , and subjective beliefs, and how such differences predict overall ca pital account deficits or surpluses as well as the composition of the capital account into trade in specific risky assets. Copyright 1988 by American Economic Association.'] [' International transmission of stochastic fiscal policy disturbances is examined in a two-country, general equilibrium framework, with possible excess supply equilibria with underutilization of resources. Nominal goods prices are sticky, although optimally set by firms in monopolistic competition. Asset prices are flexible. Agents have rational expectations. The spillover effect on foreign output of a domestic fiscal expansion differs from the standard positive Mundell-Fleming effect and depends on whether home and foreign goods are Edgeworth-Pareto complements or substitutes, which in turn depends on the relative size of intertemporal and intratemporal elasticities of substitution in consumption. Copyright 1987 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics.'] [' The problem of time inconsistency arises from two different sources. First, as shown by Guillermo A. Calvo (1978), the re is an incentive for each government to engage in an initial unanti cipated inflation. Second, as discussed by Robert E. Lucas and Nancy L. Stokey (1983), there is an incentive for each government to deviat e from the path of taxes announced by the preceding government. In th is paper, it is shown that these two sources of time inconsistency ca n be removed by a particular method of debt management, involving bot h nominal and indexed government bonds of various maturities. Copyright 1987 by The Econometric Society.'] ["This paper incorporates international capital flows into a two-country, monetary-general-equilibrium model of asset prices with investment and production. We use the model to calculate theoretical covariances between investment, the current account, the exchange rate, and the terms of trade.These covariances depend upon the coefficient of relative risk-aversion, the magnitude and sign of a country's net international indebtedness, other properties of tastes and technologies, and the stochastic processes on disturbances to productivity and monetary growth rates. International capital flows arise from changes in world wealth and its relative composition in foreign and domestic assets. The dynamic, stochastic relations between capital flows, exchange rates, investment, and the terms of trade are critically dependent on optimal portfolio allocations and the stochastic behavior of asset prices on international financial markets.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper addresses the relation between goods trade and international factor mobility in general terms. Conditions for factor price equalization are derived for situations with tradein both goods and factors,as well as Rybczynski and Stolper-Sarnuel Sofl theorems. A weak price versionof the Heckscher-Ohlifl theorem is presented, as well as stronger quantity versions.The basic theorems of international trade, suitably interpreted,are shown to hold in their strong versions ifthe number of international markets is at least as large as the number of factors.The crucial dimensionality issue is hence not the relative number of goods and factors per se, but the number of international markets relative to the number of factors. Only the price version of the Heckscher-Ohlifl theorem fails to be essentially preserved by this condition.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['A general model of trade caused by international differences in production technology is developed using techniques of duality theory. For the caseof product-augmenting differences in technology, it is shown that there is a positive correlation between net export and technological superiority, such that a country will "on average" export goods for which the country has superior technolor. If some factors are permitted to be internationally traded, it is demonstrated via this correlation that the volume of trade must increase. Thus unlike trade caused by factor endowment differences, goods trade caused by product-augmenting differences in production technolody is always in this sense complementary with factor trade. For factor-augmenting technology differences, in the absence of factor trade the goods trade pattern is as if it was caused by factor endowment differences. With factor trade, goods trade and factor trade can then be either complements or substitutes.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The current account dynamics is examined for a small open economy which is subject to exogenous changes in its static terms of trade and in world interest rates. The model used is one with overlapping finite-lived generations, which we argue gives rise to a more reasonable saving behaviour than previously used models with infinite lived consumers.In particular no restrictions on the rate of time preference is required.Anticipated and unanticipated, as well as temporary and permanent,terms of trade changes have very different effects. There is, however,a general tendency towards cycles in both savings and investment,which gives rise to cycles in the current account.The classic Harberger-Laursen-Metzler effect on saving of a terms of trade deterioration can have any sign for plausible parameter values,both for temporary and permanent disturbances.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper examines the effect of OPEC price increases on the welfare of a group of oil-importing industrial countries. It also studies how taxes or subsidies on oil imports or capital flows could alter the group's welfare. The analysis is conducted using a general-equilibrium model that describes the behavior of two actors, OPEC and the oil-importing bloc called Industria. The analysis is explicitly intertemporal and takes into account endogenous changes in saving, investment and employment.We show that Industria's welfare is affected not only by direct oil terms of trade effect, but also by changes in the world rate of interest(intertemporal terms of trade effects) and, for rigid wages, changes in employment. Thus Industria gains from the intertemporal terms of trade effect if it is a net borrower and the world rate of interest falls. Precise conditions for whether the world rate of interest falls or rises are given.We also show that Industria may gain from subsidizing oil imports rather than taxing them, in particular if wages are rigid, and that it may gain from restricting international capital mobility.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["For oil importers, differences in economic performance after the 1973-74 oil price increase and after the 1979-80 increase can be attributed to a number of factors, including the fact that the 1973-74 oil price increase was unexpected whereas the 1979-80 increase was largely expected. In this paper, we analyze how an economy's adjustment to expected oil price increases might differ from its adjustment to unexpected increases. By expected oil price increases, we shall mean ones that were anticipated in the past, and by unexpected oil price increases, we shall mean those that were not anticipated in the past but occur unexpectedly in the present. We model this distinction using a three- period model, where the periods are called the past, present and future.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Previous work by Dixit and Woodland on the effect of inter-country factor endowment differences on goods trade is extended to include simultaneous factor trade and goods trade. The goods trade pattern with factor trade is compared to that without factor trade. It is for instance shown that goods trade and factor trade may be substitutes or complements, depending upon whether traded and nontraded factors are "cooperative" or "non-cooperative." The asymmetry between the effects of differences in endowments of traded and differences in endowments of nontraded factors is emphasized.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Assume that an economy is in a state of Keynesian unemployment. Since production is demand-determined there are bootstraps (multiple) equilibria. Then, the more optimist agents are about the future the higher will be theur demand today and hence current production. In that limited sense optimism turns out to be unwarranted , which forces a download adjustment. Is this unwarranted optimism still good? We analyze this question by help of a general equilibrium model of a small open economy where the sequence of adjustment and readjustment is modeled as two successive temporary equilibria. The question wheter optimism is good is posed in terms of an explicit ( ex post) welfare evaluation. We fine that if the future is Walrasian, the future multiplier is unity, whereas the present multiplier is larger than unity. Then optimism increases ex post welfare. If the future has Keynesian unemployment, optimism still increases ex post welfare, as long as the present multiplier is larger than the future one. A necessary and sufficient condition for this is presented.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The paper makes two points as to how standard international trade theory is modified when an endogenous degree of capital utilization is introduced. The first point is that, if capital utilization during a period is less than full because of an exogenous time-dependent variation in productivity within the period, there is no modification of the standard theory. In particular, there is no need to adjust capital-intensity estimates according to the degree of capital utilization. This is in contrast to what has been argued in the literature. The other point is that, if capital utilization is less than full because of higher wages during part of the period, the night of a day and night, say, the required modification of trade theory is that of introducing several kinds of labor and endogenous labor supply, or, equivalently, of introducing nontraded goods.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" An extensive literature has recently dealt with problems concerning the stock market and the objective function of the firm, under conditions of uncertainty. This paper deals with the certainty case and develops a two-date production economy with a stock market, distinguished from the corresponding Arrow-Debreu model by a different market structure. Even in this simple set-up, different objective functions of the firm can be examined. Maximizing the market value of shares does not lead to Pareto efficiency, unless there are very many firms. By contrast, maximizing the rate of return on stockholders' investments, when taking the value of shares as given, does lead to Pareto efficiency."] ['No abstract is available for this item.']