 ['This paper reports on recent research showing that the severe recession of 2007-2009 and the weak recovery have been due to poor economic policies and the failure to implement good policies during the past decade. Monetary policy, fiscal policy, and regulatory policy became more discretionary, more interventionist, and less predictable in comparison with the previous two decades of better economic performance. At best these policies led to growth spurts, but were followed by retrenchments, averaging to poor performance. The paper also considers alternative views-that the equilibrium interest rate declined during the decade and that the seriousness of financial crisis caused the slow recovery.'] ['This paper assesses the relative effectiveness of central bank independence vs. policy rules for the policy instruments in bringing about good economic performance. It examines historical changes in (1) macroeconomic performance, (2) the adherence to rules-based monetary policy, and (3) the degree of central bank independence. Macroeconomic performance is defined in terms of both price stability and output stability. Both de jure and de facto central bank independence at the Federal Reserve are considered. The main finding is that changes in macroeconomic performance during the past half century were closely associated with changes in the adherence to rules-based monetary policy and in the degree of de facto monetary independence at the Federal Reserve. But changes in economic performance were not associated with changes in de jure central bank independence. Formal central bank independence alone has not generated good monetary policy outcomes. A rules-based framework is essential.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Research in the early 1980s found that the gains from international coordination of monetary policy were quantitatively small compared to simply getting domestic policy right. That prediction turned out to be a pretty good description of monetary policy in the 1980s, 1990s, and until recently. Because this balanced international picture has largely disappeared, the 1980s view about monetary policy coordination needs to be reexamined. The source of the problem is not that the models or the theory are wrong. Rather there was a deviation from the rule-like monetary policies that worked well in the 1980s and 1990s, and this deviation helped break down the international monetary balance. There were similar deviations at many central banks, an apparent spillover culminating in a global great deviation. The purpose of this paper is to examine the possible causes and consequences of these spillovers, and to show that uncoordinated responses of central banks to the deviations can create an amplification mechanism, which might be overcome by some form of policy coordination.'] ['In the aftermath of the global financial crisis and great recession, many countries face substantial deficits and growing debts. In the United States, federal government outlays as a ratio to GDP rose substantially from about 19.5 percent before the crisis to over 24 percent after the crisis. In this paper we consider a fiscal consolidation strategy that brings the budget to balance by gradually reducing this spending ratio over time to the level that prevailed prior to the crisis. A crucial issue is the impact of such a consolidation strategy on the economy. We use structural macroeconomic models to estimate this impact focussing primarily on a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model with price and wage rigidities and adjustment costs. We separate out the impact of reductions in government purchases and transfers, and we allow for a reduction in both distortionary taxes and government debt relative to the baseline of no consolidation. According to the model simulations GDP rises in the short run upon announcement and implementation of this fiscal consolidation strategy and remains higher than the baseline in the long run. We explore the role of the mix of expenditure cuts and tax reductions as well as gradualism in achieving this policy outcome. Finally, we conduct sensitivity studies regarding the type of model used and its parameterization.'] ['The largest credit or liquidity program created by the Federal Reserve during the financial crisis was the mortgagebacked securities (MBS) purchase program. In this paper, we examine the quantitative impact of this program on mortgage interest rate spreads. This is more difficult than frequently perceived because of simultaneous changes in prepayment risk and default risk. Our empirical results attribute a sizable portion of the decline in mortgage rates to such risks and a relatively small and uncertain portion to the program. For specifications where the existence or announcement of the program appears to have lowered spreads, we find no separate effect of the stock of MBS purchased by the Federal Reserve.'] ['This lecture examines monetary policy during the past three decades. It documents two contrasting eras: first a Rules-Based Era from 1985 to 2003 and second an Ad Hoc Era from 2003 to the present. During the Rules-Based Era, monetary policy, in broad terms, followed a predictable systemic approach, and economic performance was generally good. During the Ad Hoc Era monetary policy is best described as a \xe2\x80\x9cdiscretion of authorities\xe2\x80\x9d approach, and economic performance was decidedly poor. By considering alternative explanations of this policy-performance correlation and examining corroborating evidence, the paper concludes that rules based policies have clear advantages over discretion.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' In this paper, we investigate the comparative properties of empirically estimated monetary models of the U.S. economy using a new database of models designed for such investigations. We focus on three representative models due to Christiano, Eichenbaum, and Evans (2005), Smets and Wouters (2007), and Taylor (1993a). Although these models differ in terms of structure, estimation method, sample period, and data vintage, we find surprisingly similar economic impacts of unanticipated changes in the federal funds rate. However, optimized monetary policy rules differ across models and lack robustness. Model averaging offers an effective strategy for improving the robustness of policy rules. \xc2\xa9 2012 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['An empirical review of the three fiscal stimulus packages of the 2000s shows that they had little if any direct impact on consumption or government purchases. Households largely saved the transfers and tax rebates. The federal government only increased purchases by a small amount. State and local governments saved their stimulus grants and shifted spending away from purchases to transfers. Counterfactual simulations show that the stimulus-induced decrease in state and local government purchases was larger than the increase in federal purchases. Simulations also show that a larger stimulus package with the same design as the 2009 stimulus would not have increased government purchases or consumption by a larger amount. These results raise doubts about the efficacy of such packages adding weight to similar assessments reached more than thirty years ago. (JEL E21, E23, E32, E62, H50)'] ['This lecture starts with a review of historical trends in the balance between rules and discretion: first toward more discretionary policies in the 1960s and 1970s; second toward more rules-based policies in the 1980s and 1990s; and third back again toward discretion in recent years. In each of these swings, monetary policy and fiscal policy moved in the same direction. These swings are correlated with economic performance\xe2\x80\x94unemployment, inflation, economic and financial stability, the frequency and depths of recessions, the length and strength of recoveries. The lecture then provides evidence that the correlation is causal with the moves toward more rules-based policies improving economic performance.'] ['I discuss a proposal to legislate a rule for monetary policy. The proposal modernizes laws first passed in the late 1970s, but largely discarded in 2000. It would thereby restore reporting and accountability requirements for the instruments of monetary policy. It would limit but not eliminate discretion. The proposal provides a degree of control by the political authorities without interfering in the day-to-day operations of monetary policy.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This is a review of Allan Meltzer\'s "A History of the Federal Reserve, Volume 2." By carefully reviewing thousands of transcripts and records, Meltzer\'s history lets policy makers explain their decisions in their own words, and creatively weaves historical events into a single exceptionally clear story as he did in Volume 1. In this review I first examine the book\'s main theme--that discretionary monetary policy failed in the Great Depression (1929-1933), in the Great Inflation (1965-1980), and in the recent Great Recession (2007-2009)--and then consider its main conclusion--that monetary policy should be based on less discretion and more rule-like behavior.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This article reviews the role of monetary and fiscal policy in the financial crisis and draws lessons for future macroeconomic policy. It shows that policy deviated from what had worked well in the previous two decades by becoming more interventionist, less rules-based, and less predictable. The policy implications are thus that policy should \xe2\x80\x9cget back on track.\xe2\x80\x9d The article is a modified version of a presentation given at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia\xe2\x80\x99s policy forum \xe2\x80\x9cPolicy Lessons from the Economic and Financial Crisis,\xe2\x80\x9d December 4, 2009. The presentation was made during a panel discussion that also included James Bullard and N. Gregory Mankiw.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Renewed interest in fiscal policy has increased the use of quantitative models to evaluate policy. Because of modelling uncertainty, it is essential that policy evaluations be robust to alternative assumptions. We find that models currently being used in practice to evaluate fiscal policy stimulus proposals are not robust. Government spending multipliers in an alternative empirically estimated and widely cited new Keynesian model are much smaller than in these old Keynesian models; the estimated stimulus is extremely small with GDP and employment effects only one-sixth as large and with private sector employment impacts likely to be even smaller. We investigate the sensitivity of our findings with regard to the response of monetary policy, the zero bound on nominal interest rates and the inclusion of an empirically relevant degree of rule-of-thumb behaviour in the new Keynesian model. In addition, we relate our findings using estimated structural macroeconomic models to the recent literature using reduced-form regression techniques.'] ['The recent financial crisis saw a dramatic and persistent jump in interest rate spreads between overnight federal funds and longer - term interbank loans. The Fed took several actions to reduce these spreads including the creation of the Term Auction Facility (TAF). The effectiveness of these policies depends on the cause of the increased spreads such as counterparty risk, liquidity, or other factors. Using a no-arbitrage pricing framework and various measures of risk, we find robust evidence that increased counterparty risk contributed to the rise in spreads but do not find robust evidence that the TAF had a significant effect on spreads. (JEL E43, E44, E52, G21)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["A formula is derived that links the coefficients of the monetary policy rule for the short-term interest rate to the coefficients of the implied affine equations for long-term interest rates. The formula predicts that an increase in the coefficients in the monetary policy rule will lead to an increase in the coefficients in the affine equations. Empirical evidence for such a prediction is provided. The curve of the response coefficients by maturity is also predicted by the formula. The formula's predictive accuracy and its closed form make it a useful tool for studying the policy implications of embedding no-arbitrage affine theories into macro models."] ['This paper examines the 100-fold increase in reserve balances at the Federal Reserve during 2008. By looking at the balance sheet of the Federal Reserve and factors influencing the supply and demand for reserves, the paper shows that the increase was due to large purchases of securities and loans to certain sectors and institutions. Such actions constitute a combination of monetary policy and industrial policy, or a mondustrial policy. This characterization raises questions about the future of the Federal Reserve and suggests the need to return to a monetary framework that controls the money supply while the interest rate is zero and establishes rules for setting the interest rate.Business Economics (2009) 44, 63\xe2\x80\x9372. doi:10.1057/be.2009.1'] ['This paper was presented at the 2008 International Conference, gFrontiers in Monetary Theory and Policy,h held by the Institute for Monetary and Economic Studies, Bank of Japan, in Tokyo on May 28-29, 2008.'] ['"The Importance of Being Predictable" by John B. Taylor -- "Monetary Policy Under Uncertainty" by Ben S. Bernanke -- "The Importance of Being Predictable" by William Poole'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Questions about transparency and the optimal way to communicate and commit to a monetary policy are both highly practical and fascinating from a research viewpoint. How far can transparency be taken? Is it better for a central bank to provide information about the future path for the interest rate instrument, or simply to give the staff's economic forecast of inflation and the real economy? How should one model transparency? By assuming that communications are sent and received with error, or by assuming that only a fraction of economic agents get the information? Similarly, how can one model different degrees of commitment? And how can one test and evaluate different models of transparency and commitment?"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Over the past 20 years, the use of monetary policy rules has become pervasive in analyzing and prescribing monetary policy. This paper traces the development of such rules and their use in the analysis, prediction, and stabilization of national economies. In particular, rules provide insight into eras in which monetary policy was not effective as well as when it was, such as the persistence of the ongoing \xe2\x80\x9cGreat Moderation.\xe2\x80\x9d The paper stresses the \xe2\x80\x9cscientific\xe2\x80\x9d contributions of rules, including their insight into fluctuations of housing construction and exchange rates, as well as into the term structure of interest rates.Business Economics (2007) 42, 8\xe2\x80\x9315; doi:10.2145/20070401'] ['My remarks focus on the relationship between monetary policy and the recent turmoil in the markets for housing, housing finance, and beyond. I begin with a review of the period leading up to the crisis. I then use this review as a basis for discussing the role of monetary policy in resolving such crises and preventing future crises.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The International Journal of Central Banking from time to time will assemble and publish collections of papers on a common topic, especially when the editors see a critical mass of submissions in an active area where quick publication of the papers as a group will encourage discussion, create synergies, and increase the potential for further breakthroughs. We have decided to make this September 2006 issue of the IJCB the first such special issue, and we are planning more special issues for the future.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The effects of three different inflationary environments--high inflation, low inflation, and negative inflation--on real output stability are examined by looking at the experiences of Japan and the United States during the last 30 years. I begin by going back to see how things looked from the vantage point of the 1987 international conference at the Bank of Japan. Next I trace out how economic performance has evolved since then. Economic performance appears to have been better with low inflation than with either high inflation or negative inflation. I also look at some of the reasons for the different inflationary environments. I take both an interest rate policy rule approach and a quantity theory of money approach. Both approaches suggest that monetary policy has been the key factor in generating the different inflationary experiences.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Recent changes in policy research and in policy-making call for a reassessment of countercyclical fiscal policy. Such a reassessment indicates that countercyclical fiscal policy should focus on automatic stabilizers rather than discretionary actions. Monetary policy has been reacting more systematically to output and inflation; long expansions in the 1980s and 1990s demonstrate policy effectiveness. It is unlikely that discretionary countercyclical fiscal policy could improve things, even with less uncertainty about fiscal impacts. A discretionary countercyclical fiscal policy could make monetary policy making more difficult. Discretionary fiscal policy should focus on long-run issues, such as tax reform and social security reform.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper examines how alternative views of the monetary transmission mechanism affect the choice of a monetary policy rule. The main finding is that many different structural models indicate that the same simple monetary policy rule--one in which the central bank's target short-term interest rate reacts to inflation and to real output--would perform well. Such rules work well even in models where the monetary transmission mechanism has a relatively strong exchange-rate channel. The models differ, however, in their implications for more complex monetary rules. Copyright 2000 by Oxford University Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper examines the implications of recent research on monetary policy rules for practical monetary policy making, with special emphasis on strategies for setting interest rates by the new European Central Bank (ECB). The paper draws on recent research and new simulations of a large open economy model to assess the efficiency of a simple benchmark rule in comparison with other proposed rules. The paper stresses new results on the robustness of monetary policy rules in which each rule that is optimal or good according to one model or researcher is tested for robustness by other researchers using different models. Because of the large increase in the number of economists focussing on econometric evaluation of monetary policy rules for the interest rate instrument and because of the parallel increase in the variety of models being developed for this purpose, much more evidence is becoming available on the robustness of simle monetary policy rules for the interest rate than ever before.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" Recent progress in the practical application of research on monetary policy rules in the United States during the 1990s is examined. The paper focuses on how simple policy rules that describe how the central bank's interest rate responds to the economy have provided a useful framework for actual decision making. It is argued that the process by which economic research is put into practice--called transitional economies--is fascinating and worthy of careful study in general. Several recent examples from research on monetary policy rules are offered to show why. Copyright 1998 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd and The Victoria University of Manchester"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This article is a reprint of a lecture - given in honor of Homer Jones - that examines the causes of the Long Boom. John B. Taylor defines the Long Boom from 1982 to the present - as the period of time in which the United States has known unprecedented economic stability. This period includes the first and second-longest peacetime expansions in American history, separated by one relatively short and mild national recession. Taylor explores the internal changes in the structure of our economy, as well as external shocks and economic policy. He also discusses the reasons for the change in monetary policy. Monetary policy, he concludes, deserves most of the credit for the Long Boom because current policymakers have been more aggressive in responding to inflation, thereby keeping inflation low and recessions relatively rare. Taylor shows that the type of monetary research encouraged by Homer Jones at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis placed renewed emphasis on the difference between the real interest rate and the nominal interest rate. This type of research sought numerical guidelines for using monetary statistics to make policy, and was responsible - at least in part - for changing monetary policy.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper reviews recent developments in the design of monetary policy rules and shows that there are several key similarities between interest rate rules and money supply rules.In particular,both types of rule entail a positive response of interest rates to real output.The paper also shows why setting targets and using policy rules to achieve those targets can make monetary policy more effective.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper provides an overview of the monetary transmission mechanism describing the impact of changes in monetary policy on real GDP. Changes in financial market prices--including long-term interest rates and exchange rates--are the main vehicle for the transmission of policy. The framework incorporates rational expectations and policy rules. It is empirical and appears to fit the facts well.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The purpose of this article is to report on a comparison of several alternative numerical solution techniques for nonlinear rational-expectations models. The comparison was made by asking individual researchers to apply their different solution techniques to a simple representative-agent, optimal, stochastic growth model. Decision rules as well as simulated time series are compared. The differences among the methods turned out to be quite substantial for certain aspects of the growth model. Therefore, researchers might want to be careful not to rely blindly on the results of any chosen numerical solution method in applied work.'] [' A computationally feasible method for the full information maximum-likelihood estimation of models with rational expectations is described in this paper. The stochastic simulation of such models is also described. The methods discussed in this paper should open the way for many more tests of the rational expectations hypothesis within macroeconomic models. Copyright 1990 by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Empirical estimates of the effect of monetary and fiscal policy on the Japanese current account are provided. To assess the quantitative importance of international monetary factors, these estimates are computed under three different exchange rate regimes: flexible exchange rates, fixed exchange rates with a "yen standard" and fixed exchange rates with a "multi-currency standard." For all exchange rate regimes, monetary policy has a much smaller impact on the current account than fiscal policy, but the impact of fiscal policy on the current account is even larger when exchange rates are fixed than when exchange rates are flexible. The estimates are based on a quarterly multicountry econometric model with rational expectations estimated during the 1972-1986 period.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The paper examines international issues that arise in the design and evaluation of macroeconomic policy rules. It begins with a theoretical investigation of the effects of fiscal and monetary policy in a two-country rational expectations model with staggered wage and price setting and with perfect capital mobility. The results indicate that with the appropriate choice of policies and with flexible exchange rates, demand shocks need not give rise to international externalities or coordination issues. Price shocks, however, do create an externality, and this is the focus of the empirical part of the paper. Using a simple 7 country model -- consisting of Canada, France, Germany, Italy,Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States -- optimal cooperative and non-cooperative (Nash) policy rules to minimize the variance of output and inflation in each country are calculated. The cooperative policies are computed using standard dynamic stochastic programming techniques and the non-cooperative policies are computed using an algorithm developed by Finn Kydland. The central result is that the cooperative policy rules for these countries are more accommodative to inflation than the non-cooperative policy rules.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper examines the role of union wage contracts in the persistence of inflation, and the implication of these contracts for the problem of disinflation in the United States. A quantitative model of overlapping con- tracts explicitly oriented toward the major union sector is developed. The model takes account of expectations of future wage, price, and employment conditions as in more aggregated models that have been used in macroeconomic research. In addition, the distribution of workers according to contract length as well as deferred wage increases and escalator clauses are explicitly used in the model. The main aim of the model is to determine the constraints which these contracts impose on disinflation paths. The model indicates that the maximum speed of disinflation is extremely slow in the early phases -- if a rise in unemployment is to be avoided -- but increases considerably before the new lower rate of inflation is reached. The disinflation path is considerably slower than that observed after hyperinflation periods. However, the existence of a path of inflation reduction raises questions about whether the institution of union wage con- tracts is really the direct cause of costly disinflations, or whether their influence works indirectly by raising credibility problems about a monetary disinflation.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['A solution method and an estimation method for nonlinear rational expectations models are presented in this paper. The solution method can be used in forecasting and policy applications and can handle models with serial correlation and multiple viewpoint dates. When applied to linear models, the solution method yields the same results as those obtained from currently available methods that are designed specifically for linear models. It is, however, more flexible and general than these methods. For large nonlinear models the results in this paper indicate that the method works quite well. The estimation method is based on the maximum likelihood principal. It is, as far as we know, the only method available for obtaining maximum likelihood estimates for nonlinear rational expectations models. The method has the advantage of being applicable to a wide range of models, including, as a special case, linear ,models. The method can also handle different assumptions about the expectations of the exogenous variables, something which is not true of currently available approaches to linear models.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper reviews and contrasts different views about the role of expectations in policy research and practice. Recently, two widely different views seem to have dominated the analysis of policy questions.One view, which is referred to as the "new classical macroeconomic"view, is that expectations overwhelm the influence of monetary policy.The other view, which is referred to as the "Keynesian" macroeconomic view, is that expectations are unimportant because people do not adjust to expectations of policy change. The paper argues that both these views are misleading. It advances a new view of the role of expectations that is still emerging from current macroeconomic reearch. The new view recognizes the importance of contractual arrangements which prevent a modern economy from adjusting instantaneously to policy changes, even if they are expected. But it also emphasizes that forward-looking expectations influence how these arrangements are set up and how they evolve over time. Recent criticisms of this new view are reviewed, and examples are given to illustrate how quantitative methods that incorporate this view can be used in practice.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']