 ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper analyses the possibility and the consequences of rational bubbles in a dynamic economy where financially constrained firms demand and supply liquidity. Bubbles are more likely to emerge, the scarcer the supply of outside liquidity and the more limited the pledgeability of corporate income; they crowd investment in (out) when liquidity is abundant (scarce). We analyse extensions with firm heterogeneity and stochastic bubbles. Copyright 2012, Oxford University Press.'] [' What is the best way to reward innovation? While prizes avoid deadweight loss, intellectual property (IP) selects high social surplus projects. Optimal innovation policy thus trades off the ex ante screening benefit and the ex post distortion. It solves a multidimensional screening problem in the private information held by the innovator: research cost, quality, and market size of the innovation. The appropriate degree of market power is never full monopoly pricing and is determined by measurable market characteristics, the inequality and elasticity of innovation supply, making the analysis open to empirical calibration. The framework has applications beyond IP policy to the optimal pricing of platforms or the optimal procurement of public infrastructure. Copyright 2012, Oxford University Press.'] ['Weak European institutions bear some responsibility for the current Eurozone crisis. The paper discusses various alleys for reforming European institutions, such as those in charge of monitoring countries and banks. It then discusses the future of solidarity within the Eurozone, as well as proposed reforms impacting risk sharing. It concludes with steps that might help restore confidence in the European Monetary Union'] [' The article shows that time-consistent, imperfectly targeted support to distressed institutions makes private leverage choices strategic complements. When everyone engages in maturity mismatch, authorities have little choice but intervening, creating both current and deferred (sowing the seeds of the next crisis) social costs. In turn, it is profitable to adopt a risky balance sheet. These insights have important consequences, from banks choosing to correlate their risk exposures to the need for macro-prudential supervision. (JEL D82, E52, E58, G01, G21, G28)'] [' The paper provides a first analysis of market jump starting and its two-way interaction between mechanism design and participation constraints. The government optimally overpays for the legacy assets and cleans up the market of its weakest assets, through a mixture of buybacks and equity injections, and leaves the firms with the strongest legacy assets to the market. The government reduces adverse selection enough to let the market rebound, but not too much, so as to limit the cost of intervention. The existence of a market imposes no welfare cost. (JEL D82, D83, G01, G31, H81)'] [' We develop a theory of moral behavior, individual and collective, based on a general model of identity in which people care about "who they are" and infer their own values from past choices. The model sheds light on many empirical puzzles inconsistent with earlier approaches. Identity investments respond nonmonotonically to acts or threats, and taboos on mere thoughts arise to protect beliefs about the "priceless" value of certain social assets. High endowments trigger escalating commitment and a treadmill effect, while competing identities can cause dysfunctional capital destruction. Social interactions induce both social and antisocial norms of contribution, sustained by respectively shunning free riders or do-gooders. Copyright 2011, Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["The Kyoto and Copenhagen Protocols on climate change mitigation postponed the specification of binding commitments to a future negotiation. This paper analyzes the strategic implications of delayed negotiations. While, as is well-understood, the incentive to free ride leads to excessive emissions prior to a binding agreement, the cost of delay is magnified by players' attempt to secure a favorable bargaining position in the future negotiation. A \xe2\x80\x9cbrinkmanship\xe2\x80\x9d, an \xe2\x80\x9ceffort substitution\xe2\x80\x9d, and a \xe2\x80\x9craising rival's cost\xe2\x80\x9d effects all concur to generate high post-agreement emissions. The paper applies this general insight to the issuance of forward or bankable permits."] ["The recent crisis was characterized by massive illiquidity. This paper reviews what we know and don't know about illiquidity and all its friends: market freezes, fire sales, contagion, and ultimately insolvencies and bailouts. It first explains why liquidity cannot easily be apprehended through a single statistic, and asks whether liquidity should be regulated given that a capital adequacy requirement is already in place. The paper then analyzes market breakdowns due to either adverse selection or shortages of financial muscle, and explains why such breakdowns are endogenous to balance sheet choices and to information acquisition. It then looks at what economics can contribute to the debate on systemic risk and its containment. Finally, the paper takes a macroeconomic perspective, discusses shortages of aggregate liquidity, and analyzes how market value accounting and capital adequacy should react to asset prices. It concludes with a topical form of liquidity provision, monetary bailouts and recapitalizations, and analyzes optimal combinations thereof; it stresses the need for macro-prudential policies. ( JEL E44, G01, G21, G28, G32, L51)"] [" Society's demands for individual and corporate social responsibility as alternative responses to market and distributive failures are becoming increasingly prominent. We draw on recent developments in the psychology and economics of prosocial behaviour to shed light on this trend and the underlying mix of motivations. We then link individual concerns to corporate social responsibility, contrasting three possible understandings of the term: firms' adoption of a more long-term perspective, the delegated exercise of prosocial behaviour on behalf of stakeholders, and insider-initiated corporate philanthropy. We discuss the benefits, costs and limits of socially responsible behaviour as a means to further societal goals. Copyright (c) The London School of Economics and Political Science 2009."] [" Pigovian taxation of externalities has limited appeal if the tortfeaser has insufficient resources to pay the damage when it occurs. To defend Pigovian taxation in the presence of judgement-proof agents, its proponents point at the many institutions extending liability to third parties. Yet little is known about the validity of Pigou's analysis in this context. The paper analyses the costs and benefits of extended liability and investigates whether full internalization is called for in the presence of agency costs between potential tortfeasers and providers of guarantees. Its contribution is two-fold. It first shows that the better the firms' corporate governance and the stronger their balance sheet, the more closely taxes should track the corresponding externality. It then develops the first analysis of extended liability when guarantors themselves may be judgement-proof, and the extension of liability may give rise to further externalities. Relatedly, it derives the curvature of the optimal taxation of externalities in a multi-plant firm. Copyright , Wiley-Blackwell."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Thinking about contingencies, designing covenants, and seeing through their implications is costly. Parties to a contract accordingly use heuristics and leave it incomplete. The paper develops a model of limited cognition and examines its consequences for contractual design. (JEL D23, D82, D86, L22)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This lecture, delivered by Jean Tirole at the 2008 afse Congress and based on joint work with Roland B\xc3\xa9nabou, revisits the old debate on the effectiveness of incentives, focusing on how the latter impact the perception and meaning of acts. It explains how a principal?s organizational choices can affect an agent?s intrinsic motivation, and how material incentives for, and publicity attached to prosocial acts change the meaning of behavior. Finally, it discusses social norms and how the latter can be altered by the law. Classification JEL : D11, D64, D82, Z13.'] ['This paper reflects on the economics and politics of an international climate policy agreement. The international community has so far failed to design institutions and a compensation scheme that would lead to an abatement effort commensurate with the IPCC recommendations that it attempts tofollow. The paper first lays out what could be a proper institutional design, minimizing the impact of abatement on the world consumer\xe2\x80\x99s income, and thereby making the fight against climate change more credible. It then sketches a governance mechanism as well as an approach to compensation. Finally, it concludes with a roadmap for the negotiation.'] ['We consider public-private partnerships, in which a public official selects a project that is then developed and operated by a private contractor. We derive optimal public accounting rules when the official\'s choice among projects is biased by ideology or social ties or because of pandering to special interests. We give particular emphasis to how the rules should constrain the official\'s incentive to understate the costs of her pet projects. In the basic model, we show that the optimal accounting rule takes the form of a budget cap, with a project\'s expected cost modified to reflect the official\'s distortionary incentives. If the project can be partially financed privately, then "fixed-price" contracts can serve to curb political misbehavior by "securitizing" public sector liabilities. We also consider the possibility that development and operations are each handled by different contractors. Such "unbundling" deprives public accountants of forward information about future costs, but can prevent the official from funneling hidden future rents to contractors.'] [' Unemployment insurance and employment protection are typically discussed and studied in isolation. In this paper, we argue that they are tightly linked, and we focus on their joint optimal design in a simple model, with risk-averse workers, risk-neutral firms, and random shocks to productivity. We show that, in the "first best," unemployment insurance comes with employment protection-in the form of layoff taxes; indeed, optimality requires that layoff taxes be equal to unemployment benefits. We then explore the implications of four broad categories of deviations from first best: limits on insurance, limits on layoff taxes, ex post wage bargaining, and ex ante heterogeneity of firms or workers. We show how the design must be modified in each case. Finally, we draw out the implications of our analysis for current policy debates and reform proposals, from the financing of unemployment insurance, to the respective roles of severance payments and unemployment benefits. (c) 2008 by the European Economic Association.'] ["Payment card associations offer both debit and credit cards and sometimes engage in a tie-in on the merchant side through the so-called honor-all-cards (HAC) rule. This article analyzes the impact of the HAC rule, using a simple model with two types of transactions subject to different competitive pressures. In the no-HAC-rule benchmark model, the interchange fee (IF, the transfer from the merchant's bank to the cardholder's bank) on the card subject to platform competition is socially too low, and the IF on the card protected from competition is either optimal or too high. In either case, the HAC rule not only benefits the multi-card platform but also raises social welfare, due to a rebalancing effect. The paper then investigates a number of extensions of the benchmark model, including varying degrees of substitutability between the two cards; merchant heterogeneity; and platform differentiation. While the HAC rule may no longer raise social welfare under all values of the parameters, the basic and socially beneficial rebalancing effect unveiled in the benchmark model is robust."] ['Liquidity shortages arise when financial institutions and industrial companies scramble for, and cannot find the cash they require to meet their most urgent needs or undertake their most valuable projects. Liquidity problems are compounded when some actors do have excess liquidity, but are unwilling to lend it at the maturities desired by prospective borrowers. The paper revisits the theoretical underpinnings of such liquidity shortages: what drives corporate liquidity demand and supply? How is the latter affected by financial innovation? When does the economy produce enough liquidity for its own needs, and what is the role of public policy? The paper also offers some comments on the recent subprime episode and its implications for prudential regulation, rating agencies and public policy'] ['This paper empirically explores the procedures employed by standard-setting organizations. Consistent with Lerner-Tirole (2004), we find (a) a negative relationship between the extent to which an SSO is oriented to technology sponsors and the concession level required of sponsors and (b) a positive correlation between the sponsor-friendliness of the selected SSO and the quality of the standard. We also develop and test two extensions of the earlier model: the presence of provisions mandating royalty-free licensing is negatively associated with disclosure requirements, and when there are only a limited number of SSOs, the relationship between concessions and user friendliness is weaker.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["The paper explores strategies that the sponsor of a proposal may employ to convince a qualified majority of members in a group to approve the proposal. Adopting a mechanism design approach to communication, it emphasizes the need to distill information selectively to key group members and to engineer persuasion cascades in which members who are brought on board sway the opinion of others. The paper shows that higher congruence among group members benefits the sponsor. The extent of congruence between the group and the sponsor, and the size and the governance of the group, are also shown to condition the sponsor's ability to get his project approved. (JEL D71, D72, D83)"] ['This paper seeks to bridge the gap between economists focused on designing competitive market mechanisms and engineers focused on the physical attributes and engineering requirements they perceive as being needed for operating a reliable electric power system. The paper starts by deriving the (second-best) optimal prices and investment program when there are price-insensitive retail consumers, but when their load serving entities can choose any level of rationing they prefer contingent on real time prices. It then examines the assumptions required for a competitive wholesale and retail market to achieve this optimal price and investment program. The paper analyses the implications of relaxing several of these assumptions. First, it analyzes the interrelationships between regulator-imposed price caps and capacity obligations. It goes on to explore the implications of potential network collapses, the concomitant need for operating reserve requirements and whether market prices will provide incentives for investments consistent with these reserve requirements.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We develop a theory of prosocial behavior that combines heterogeneity in individual altruism and greed with concerns for social reputation or self-respect. Rewards or punishments (whether material or image-related) create doubt about the true motive for which good deeds are performed, and this ?overjustification effect? can induce a partial or even net crowding out of prosocial behavior by extrinsic incentives. We also identify the settings that are conducive to multiple social norms and, more generally, those that make individual actions complements or substitutes, which we show depends on whether stigma or honor is (endogenously) the dominant reputational concern. Finally, we analyze the socially optimal level of incentives and how monopolistic or competitive sponsors depart from it. Sponsor competition is shown to potentially reduce social welfare. (JEL D11, D64, D82, Z13)'] ["The paper offers a roadmap to the current economic thinking concerning interchange fees. After describing the fundamental externalities inherent in payment systems and analysing merchant resistance to interchange fee increases and the associations' determination of this fee, it derives the externalities' implications for welfare analysis. It then discusses whether consumer surplus or social welfare is the proper benchmark for regulatory purposes. Finally, it offers a critique of the current regulatory approach, and concludes with a call for more novel and innovative thinking about how to reconcile regulators' concerns and the industry legitimate desire to perform its balancing act."] ['We analyze a number of unstudied aspects of retail electricity competition. We first explore the implications of load profiling of consumers whose traditional meters do not allow for measurement of their real time consumption, when consumers are homogeneous up to a scaling factor. In general, the combination of retail competition and load profiling does not yield the second best prices given the non price responsiveness of consumers. Specifically, the competitive equilibrium does not support the Ramsey two-part tariff. By contrast, when consumers have real time meters and are billed based on real time prices and consumption, retail competition yields the Ramsey prices even when consumers can only partially respond to variations in real time prices. More complex consumer heterogeneity does not lead to adverse se1ection and competitive screening behavior unless consumers have real time meters and are not rational. We then examine the incentives competitive retailers have to install one of two types of advanced metering equipment. Competing retailers overinvest in real time meters compared to the Ramsey optimum, but the investment incentives are constrained optimal given load-profiling and retail competition. Finally, we consider the effects of physical limitations on the ability of system operators to cut off individual customers. Competing retailers have no incentive to determine the aggregate value of non-interruption of consumers in the zones they serve, preferring instead to free ride on other retailers serving consumers in the same zones.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Owners of intellectual property or mere sponsors of an idea (e.g., authors, security issuers, sponsors of standards) resort to more or less independent certifiers to persuade potential users (buyers or adopters) of the worth of their property or idea. We analyze the sponsor?s choices of certifier and design, social preferences regarding these choices, and the impacts thereon of multiple categories of users, of a downstream presence of the sponsor, and of certifier market power. Finally, we study strategic forum shopping by sponsors of competing ideas. (JEL D82, 031, 034)'] [' International surveys reveal wide differences between the views held in different countries concerning the causes of wealth or poverty and the extent to which people are responsible for their own fate. At the same time, social ethnographies and experiments by psychologists demonstrate individuals\' recurrent struggle with cognitive dissonance as they seek to maintain, and pass on to their children, a view of the world where effort ultimately pays off and everyone gets their just desserts. This paper offers a model that helps explain i) why most people feel such a need to believe in a "just world"; ii) why this need, and therefore the prevalence of the belief, varies considerably across countries; iii) the implications of this phenomenon for international differences in political ideology, levels of redistribution, labor supply, aggregate income, and popular perceptions of the poor. More generally, the paper develops a theory of collective beliefs and motivated cognitions, including those concerning "money" (consumption) and happiness, as well as religion. Copyright (c) 2006 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology..'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["The paper develops a theory of costly communication in which the sender's and receiver's motivations and abilities endogenously determine the communication mode and the transfer of knowledge. Communication is modeled as a problem of moral hazard in teams, in which the sender and receiver select persuasion and message elaboration efforts. The model is shown to provide a rich set of insights concerning (i) the impact of incentive alignment on communication strategies, (ii) the relative influence and the complementarity/substitutability between issue-relevant communication and cues (information that relates to the credibility of the sender rather than to the issue at stake), and (iii) the path dependency of communication."] ["In this paper we study how observing the actions of others affects individuals' ability to exercise self-control.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' We study the role of Standard Setting Organization (SSOs) in the adoption of standards. The way the SSO balances the interests of sponsor and users is key to its ability to certify the technology. Proximity to users builds trust in the endorsement, but may be unattractive to technology sponsors. In a static context, we show that the SSO is an effective certifier if and only if it puts enough weight on users\' interests. We then tackle the more challenging problem of SSO certification in a dynamic setting in which new information will accrue in the future and user choices are irreversible. The SSO and the users must then both take a dynamic perspective and contemplate the possibility of a "second chance" that may arise for the standard. A key insight is the possibility of multiple self-fulfilling expectations. It is possible to have an equilibrium with no second chance, a lenient SSO endorsement policy and high stigma from early rejection. It is also possible to have an equilibrium with a second chance, a selective SSO endorsement policy and low stigma from early rejection. Finally, and in both the static and the dynamic setups, we ask whether the SSO is too inclined to turn down or to accept the standard from a social viewpoint. (JEL: D71, D82, L15, O31) Copyright (c) 2005 The European Economic Association.'] ["This paper reviews our understanding of the growing open source movement. We highlight how many aspects of open source software appear initially puzzling to an economist. As we have acknowledged, our ability to answer confidently many of the issues raised here questions is likely to increase as the open source movement itself grows and evolves. At the same time, it is heartening to us how much of open source activities can be understood within existing economic frameworks, despite the presence of claims to the contrary. The labor and industrial organization literatures provide lenses through which the structure of open source projects, the role of contributors, and the movement's ongoing evolution can be viewed."] ["We examine the performance attributes of a merchant transmission investment framework that relies on 'market driven' investment to increase transmission network capacity needed to support competitive wholesale markets for electricity. Under a stringent set of assumptions, the merchant investment model has a remarkable set of attributes that appears to solve the natural monopoly problem and the associated need for regulating electric transmission companies. We expand the merchant model to incorporate several attributes of wholesale power markets and transmission networks that the merchant model ignores. These include market power in wholesale electricity markets, lumpiness in transmission investment opportunities, stochastic attributes of transmission networks and associated property rights definition issues, strategic behavior by potential merchant transmission investors and issues related to the coordination of transmission system operators and merchant transmission owners. Incorporating these more realistic attributes of transmission networks and the behavior of transmission owners and system operators leads to the conclusion that several potentially significant inefficiencies may result from reliance on the merchant transmission investment framework. Accordingly, it is inappropriate for policymakers to assume that they can avoid dealing with the many challenges associated with stimulating efficient levels of investment in electric transmission networks by adopting the merchant model. Copyright Blackwell Publishing Ltd. 2005."] ['We build a simple model to capture the major virtues and drawbacks of making public officials accountable (i. e., subjecting them to reelection): On the one hand, accountability allows the public to screen and discipline their officials; on the other, it may induce those officials to pander to public opinion and put too little weight on minority welfare. We study when decision-making powers should be allocated to the public directly (direct democracy), to accountable officials (called "politicians"), or to nonaccountable officials (called "judges").'] ['The paper builds a tractable model of patent pools, agreements among patent owners to license sets of their patents. It provides a necessary and sufficient condition for patent pools to enhance welfare and shows that requiring pool members to be able to independently license patents matters if and only if the pool is otherwise welfare reducing. The paper allows patents to differ in importance, asymmetric blocking patterns, and licensors to also be licensees. We undertake some initial exploration of the impact of pools on innovation. The analysis has broader applicability than pools, being relevant to a number of co-marketing arrangements.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This article extends the theory of network competition by allowing receivers to derive a surplus from receiving calls and to affect the volume of communications by hanging up. We investigate how receiver charges affect internalization of the call externality. When the receiver charge and the termination charge are both regulated, there exists an efficient equilibrium. When reception charges are market determined, each network finds it optimal to set the prices for calling and reception at its off-net costs. The symmetric equilibrium is efficient for a proper choice of termination charge. Last, network-based price discrimination creates strong incentives for connectivity breakdowns.'] ["The Paper analyses the funding of an infrastructure project (high speed train line, platform, tunnel, harbor, regional airport, fibre-to-the-home network, etc.) in a situation in which an incumbent operator has private information about market profitability (demand, cost) and the infrastructure owner is subject to a budget constraint, either on a per project basis or over the entire infrastructure. An open access policy raises welfare, but may make the project non-viable since funding must be provided by capital contributions and access charges. The infrastructure owner can ask the incumbent for a higher capital contribution if the latter insists on an exclusive use. Yet, such screening is at odds with social goals: The incumbent is willing to pay more for exclusivity, the higher the demand (the lower the cost), that is precisely when competition yields the highest benefits. At the optimum, the incumbent's information impacts the decision of whether to build the infrastructure, but is not used to determine market structure. The Paper further shows that an absence of long-term licencing favours monopoly franchising, while a threat of regulatory capture creates an open-access presumption.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [" This paper provides a first study of the optimal design of active monitors' exit options in a problem involving a demand for liquidity and costly monitoring of the issuer. Optimal incentives to monitor the issuer may involve restricting the monitor's right to sell her claims on the firm's cash-flow early. But the monitor will then require a liquidity premium for holding such an illiquid claim. In general, therefore, there will be a trade off between incentives and liquidity. The paper highlights a fundamental complementarity between speculative monitoring in financial markets (which increases the informativeness of prices) and active monitoring inside the firm: in financial markets where price discovery is better and securities prices reflect the fundamentals of the issuer better, the incentive cost of greater liquidity may be smaller and active monitoring incentives may be preserved. The paper spells out the conditions under which more or less liquidity is warranted and applies the analysis to shed light on common exit provisions in venture capital financing. Copyright 2004, Oxford University Press."] ['This Paper studies the internal commitment mechanisms or \xe2\x80\x98personal rules\xe2\x80\x99 (diets, exercise regimens, resolutions, moral or religious precepts, etc.) through which people seek to achieve self-control. Our theory is based on the idea of self-reputation over one\xe2\x80\x99s willpower, which potentially transforms lapses in a personal rule into precedents that undermine future self-restraint. The foundation for such effects, in turn, is the imperfect recall of past motives and feelings, which leads people to draw inferences from their own past actions. We thus model the behaviour of individuals who are unsure of their willpower (ability to delay ratification) in certain states of the world, and show how self-control can be sustained by the fear of creating damaging precedents. We also show, however, that people will sometimes adopt excessively rigid rules that result in compulsive behaviours such as miserliness, workaholism, or anorexia. These represent costly forms of self-signaling where the individual is so afraid of appearing weak to himself that every decision becomes a test of his willpower, even when self-restraint is not even desirable ex-ante. Such common behaviours which appear to display a \xe2\x80\x98salience of the future\xe2\x80\x99 are thus not only consistent, but actually generated by (a concern over) present-oriented preferences. Finally, we analyse the cognitive underpinnings of self-regulation. We first show how equilibrium behaviour is shaped by the extent to which the individual\xe2\x80\x99s self-monitoring is subject to opportunistic distortions of memory or attribution. We then study how recall and inference processes can themselves be endogenously determined through the use of self-sustaining cognitive rules and resolutions.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Many if not most markets with network externalities are two-sided. To succeed, platforms in industries such as software, portals and media, payment systems and the Internet, must "get both sides of the market on board." Accordingly, platforms devote much attention to their business model, that is, to how they court each side while making money overall. This paper builds a model of platform competition with two-sided markets. It unveils the determinants of price allocation and end-user surplus for different governance structures (profit-maximiz-ing platforms and not-for-profit joint undertakings), and compares the outcomes with those under an integrated monopolist and a Ramsey planner. (JEL: L5, L82, L86, L96) Copyright (c) 2003 The European Economic Association.'] [' This paper introduces a symposium of EEA-funded studies that evaluate economics research in Europe. The paper considers some general issues in evaluations, paying special attention to the problem of selecting journal weights, and notes some special features of the individual studies. Despite their very different approaches, the same group of institutions tend to appear at the top of all lists, though individual ranks are sensitive to the choice of more or less elitist journal weights. All the studies show that the gap between economics research in Europe and the United States is narrowing, but remains very wide. (JEL: A10, J44) Copyright (c) 2003 The European Economic Association.'] [' A central tenet of economics is that individuals respond to incentives. For psychologists and sociologists, in contrast, rewards and punishments are often counterproductive, because they undermine "intrinsic motivation". We reconcile these two views, showing how performance incentives offered by an informed principal (manager, teacher, parent) can adversely impact an agent\'s (worker, child) perception of the task, or of his own abilities. Incentives are then only weak reinforcers in the short run, and negative reinforcers in the long run. We also study the effects of empowerment, help and excuses on motivation, as well as situations of ego bashing reflecting a battle for dominance within a relationship. Copyright The Review of Economic Studies Limited, 2003.'] ['Studying the implications of uncoordinated borrowing, the paper first looks at whether and when countries borrow too much in the aggregate. It then revisits the "original sin" debate, analyzing whether and when equity portfolio investment, international portfolio diversification, domestic currency denomination and longer maturities enhance borrowing countries\' access to international lending. The paper thereby relates a country\'s level and quality of access to international capital markets to a variety of institutional features such as the level of domestic savings, their location, the extent of control rights held by political authorities, and the interests of dominant domestic political forces.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" We develop a framework for Internet backbone competition. In the absence of direct payments between websites and consumers, the access charge allocates communication costs between websites and consumers and affects the volume of traffic. We analyze the impact of the access charge on competitive strategies in an unregulated retail environment. In a remarkably broad range of environments, operators set prices for their customers as if their customers' traffic were entirely off-net. We then compare the socially optimal access charge with the privately desirable one. Finally, when websites charge micropayments, or sell goods and services, the impact of the access charge on welfare is reduced; in particular, the access charge is neutral in a range of circumstances. Copyright 2003 by the RAND Corporation."] ['The paper investigates, in a non-technical fashion, the economic determinants of interchange fees in payment card systems and the potential need for their regulation. Among other things, it demonstrates that the proposal for a cost-based regulation of interchange fees relies on an erroneous, vertically organized, model of the payment card industry.'] [' We evaluate the competitive and governance effects of "duality." Duality refers to the joint membership (e.g., by banks) in competing associations or joint ventures (e.g., Visa and MasterCard). We first show that the not-for-profit nature of the associations along with the usage-based fees they charge yield productive efficiency. We then analyze the impact of (i) membership exclusivity, when the associations remain not-for-profit, and (ii) the conversion into for-profit systems. We illustrate the results in the case of a double-differentiation model that is of independent interest. Finally, we discuss extensions to (i) endogenous system differentiation, and (ii) agency considerations. Copyright 2003 by the RAND Corporation.'] [" We analyze platforms in two-sided markets with network externalities, using the specific context of a payment card association. We study the cooperative determination of the interchange fee by member banks. The interchange fee is the ``access charge'' paid by the merchants' banks (the acquirers) to cardholders' banks (the issuers). We develop a framework in which banks and merchants may have market power and consumers and merchants decide rationally on whether to buy or accept a payment card. After drawing the welfare implications of a cooperative determination of the interchange fee, we describe in detail the factors affecting merchant resistance, compare cooperative and for-profit business models, and make a first cut in the analysis of system competition."] [" This paper argues that parties regulate competition among like-minded factions so as to enhance reputation building by, and voter trust in, the politicians standing for a given cause. While intra- and interparty competition contributes to keeping politicians on their toes, unbridled competition may encourage politicians to challenge good platforms and to wage competition along socially suboptimal dimensions (for example, by privileging form over content). The paper builds a simple model of intraparty competition and studies whether various hierarchical or democratic party institutions constitute an efficient form of party governance. The paper shows that intraparty disagreements, when they occur, hurt the party's position in the general election, but that their possibility enhances party image; and that parties must be able to avoid behind-the-scene allocations of portfolios and spoils in order to be credible. Last, it analyzes the impact of political polarization and interparty competition on the choice of party governance. \xc2\xa9 2001 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology"] [' We analyze the value placed by rational agents on self-confidence, and the strategies employed in its pursuit. Confidence in one\'s abilities generally enhances motivation, making it a valuable asset for individuals with imperfect willpower. This demand for self-serving beliefs (which can also arise from hedonic or signaling motives) must be weighed against the risks of overconfidence. On the supply side, we develop a model of self-deception through endogenous memory that reconciles the motivated and rational features of human cognition. The resulting intrapersonal game of strategic communication typically leads to multiple equilibria. While "positive thinking" can improve welfare, it can also be self-defeating (and nonetheless pursued). Believe what is in the line of your needs, for only by such belief is the need fulfilled . . . Have faith that you can successfully make it, and your feet are nerved to its accomplishment &amp;lsqb;William James, Principles of Psychology&amp;rsqb;. I have done this, says my memory. I cannot have done that, says my pride, remaining inexorable. Finally - memory yields &amp;lsqb;Friedrich Nietzsche, Beyond Good and Evil&amp;lsqb;. I had during many years followed the Golden Rule, namely, that whenever a published fact, a new observation or thought came across me, which was opposed to my general results, to make a memorandum of it without fail and at once; for I had found by experience that such (contrary and thus unwelcome) facts and thoughts were far more apt to escape from memory than favorable ones &amp;lsqb;Charles Darwin in The Life of Charles Darwin, by Francis Darwin&amp;rsqb;. \xc2\xa9 2001 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' There has been a recent surge of interest in open source software development, which involves developers at many different locations and organizations sharing code to develop and refine programs. To an economist, the behavior of individual programmers and commercial companies engaged in open source projects is initially startling. This paper makes a preliminary exploration of the economics of open source software. We highlight the extent to which labor economics, especially the literature on "career concerns", and industrial organization theory can explain many of these projects\' features. We conclude by listing interesting research questions related to open source software. Copyright 2002 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The paper first develops an economic analysis of the concept of shareholder value, describes its approach, and discusses some open questions. It emphasizes the relationship between pledgeable income, monitoring, and control rights using a unifying and simple framework. The paper then provides a first and preliminary analysis of the concept of the stakeholder society. It investigates whether the managerial incentives and the control structure described in the first part can be modified so as to promote the stakeholder society. It shows that the implementation of the stakeholder society strikes three rocks: dearth of pledgeable income, deadlocks in decision-making, and lack of clear mission for management. While it fares better than the stakeholder society on those three grounds, shareholder value generates biased decision-making; the paper analyzes the costs and benefits of various methods of protecting noncontrolling stakeholders: covenants, exit options, flat claims, enlarged fiduciary duty.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We study the "backbone market" in the Internet. After discussing the structure of the Internet, we use an extension of the Katz-Shapiro network model to analyze the strategies that would be used by dominant backbone. We show that a larger backbone prefers a lower quality interconnection than the smaller one. We then analyze a "targeted degradation" strategy where the larger backbone lowers the quality of interconnection to its smaller rivals in turn. Finally, we show that the qualitative results are robust to the possibility of "multihoming" by clients. Copyright 2000 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd'] [" This paper develops a model of pricing to deter entry by a sole supplier of a network good. We show that the installed user base of a network good can serve a preemptive function similar to that of an investment in capacity if the entrant's good is incompatible with the incumbent's good and there are network externalities in demand. Consequently, the threat of entry can lead the incumbent to set low prices. We identify some factors that should be considered in thinking about the welfare effects of entry deterrence in this and similar models. Copyright 2000 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd"] [' Firms sometimes try to "poach" the customers of their competitors by offering them inducements to switch. We analyze duopoly poaching under both short-term and long-term contracts assuming either that each consumer\'s brand preferences are fixed over time or that preferences are independent over time. With fixed preferences, short-term contracts lead to poaching and socially inefficient switching. The equilibrium with long-term contracts has less switching than when only short-term contracts are feasible, and it involves the sale of both short-term and long-term contracts. With independent preferences, short-term contracts are efficient, but long-term contracts lead to inefficiently little switching.'] [' Firms and financial institutions are best viewed as ongoing entities, whose project completion may require renewed injections of liquidity. This paper proposes a contract-theoretic framework integrating three dimensions of corporate financing and prudential regulation: (a) liquidity management, (b) risk management, and (c) capital structure. It concludes with a preliminary assessment of recent regulatory approaches to the treatment of market risk.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The authors first point out that the recent property-rights literature is based on three assumptions: (1) that contracts are always subject to renegotiation; (2) that the exercise of a property right confers a private benefit and (3) that parties are risk-neutral. Building on Hart-Moore (1999), they provide conditions under which an optimal contract consists of nothing more than an assignment of property rights. The authors also examine the robustness of some of the literature's standard predictions about asset ownership to the introduction of mechanisms for eliciting parties' ex post willingness to pay for the assets (such as options or financial markets). To illustrate the issue, they revisit the Hart-Moore (1990) proposition that joint ownership is suboptimal, and argue that ownership by a single party is dominated by joint ownership with put options. Copyright 1999 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited."] [' This paper uses a simple multitask career concern model in order to analyze the incentives of government agency officials. Incentives are impaired by the agency pursuing multiple missions. A lack of focus is even more problematic in the case of fuzzy missions, that is when outsiders are uncertain about the exact nature of the missions actually pursued by the agency. Consequently, agencies pursuing multiple missions receive less autonomy. The paper further shows that professionalization creates a sense of mission for the agency and that the specialization of officials raises their incentives. Last, the paper compares its predictions with the stylized facts on government bureaucracies. Copyright 1999 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['[fre] Cet article passe en revue quelques apports des r\xc3\xa9flexions r\xc3\xa9centes de la th\xc3\xa9orie des incitations au choix entre diff\xc3\xa9rentes formes d\xe2\x80\x99appels d\xe2\x80\x99offre et de contrats de concession. Il examine les d\xc3\xa9terminants d\xe2\x80\x99un choix judicieux du partage du risque entre autorit\xc3\xa9s conc\xc3\xa9dante et concessionnaire, et \xc3\xa9tudie les dangers auxquels font face les relations de long terme ainsi que l\xe2\x80\x99opportunit\xc3\xa9 de politiques d\xe2\x80\x99\xc3\xa9quilibre budg\xc3\xa9taire et de privatisation. Il conclut par une application de la th\xc3\xa9orie \xc3\xa0 un d\xc3\xa9bat r\xc3\xa9cent sur les concessions autorouti\xc3\xa8res. [eng] Franchising, competition and incentives . The paper reviews some of the recent contributions of incitative theory to the choice of franchising contracts and to the design of auctions. It first analyses the determinants of optimal risk sharing between the franchisor and the franchisee. It then identifies some hazards faced by long-term relationships and briefly discusses the costs and benefits of budget balance and privatization. Last, it concludes with an application of theory to a recent debate on highway franchising.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper takes stock of the advances and directions for research on the incomplete contracting front. It first illustrates some of the main ideas of the incomplete contract literature through an example. It then offers methodological insights on the standard approach to modeling incomplete contracts; in particular it discusses a tension between two assumptions made in the literature, namely rationality and the existence of transaction costs. Last, it argues that, contrary to what is commonly argued, the complete contract methodology need not be unable to account for standard institutions such as authority and ownership; and it concludes with a discussion of the research agenda.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The authors scrutinize the conceptual framework commonly used in the incomplete contract literature. This literature usually assumes that contractual incompleteness is due to the transaction costs of describing--or of even foreseeing--the possible states of nature in advance. They argue, however, that such transaction costs need not interfere with optimal contracting (i.e., transaction costs need not be relevant), provided that agents can probabilistically forecast their possible future payoffs (even if other aspects of the state of the nature cannot be forecast). In other words, all that is required for optimality is that agents be able to perform dynamic programming, an assumption always invoked by the incomplete contract literature. The foregoing optimality result holds very generally provided that parties can commit themselves not to renegotiate. Moreover, the authors point out that renegotiation may be hard to reconcile with a framework that otherwise presumes perfect rationality. However, even if renegotiation is allowed, the result still remains valid provided that parties are risk averse. Copyright 1999 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] [' Many incentives in organizations arise not through explicit formal incentive contracts but rather implicitly through career concerns. This paper models career concerns through agents trying to manipulate the market assessment of their future productivity. The information flow from current actions to market assessment is therefore crucial in determining the nature of these incentives. Improved information may either increase or reduce incentives. The impact of information provides a major distinction between the explicit and implicit incentives model. The paper derives general results on comparisons of information structures which serve as counterparts to the standard results on information structures in the principal-agent model: sufficient statistic, impact of a Blackwell garbling, comparison of inclusive information structures. Copyright 1999 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] [" Our companion article developed a clear conceptual framework of negotiated or regulated interconnection agreements between rival operators and studied competition between interconnected networks, under the assumption of nondiscriminatory pricing. This article relaxes this assumption and allows networks to charge different prices for calls terminating on the subscriber's network and those terminating on a rivals network. This creates a price differential between services that are identical for the consumer and generates network externalities despite network interconnection. We show that in both the mature and entry phases of the industry, the nature of competition is substantially affected by such price discrimination."] [' We study monopoly pricing of overlapping generations of a durable good. We consider two sorts of goods: those with an active secondhand market and anonymous consumers, such as textbooks, and those with no secondhand market and consumers who can prove that they purchased the old good to qualify for a discount on the new one, such as software. In the first case we show that the monopolist may choose to either produce or repurchase the old good once the new one becomes available. In the latter case we determine when the monopolist chooses to offer upgrade discounts.'] ['This paper addresses a basic yet unresolved question: Do claims on private assets provide sufficient liquidity for an efficient functioning of the productive sector? Or does the State have a role in creating liquidity and regulating it either through adjustments in the stock of government securities or by other means? In our model, firms can meet future liquidity needs in three ways: by issuing new claims and diluting old ones, by obtaining a credit credit line from a financial intermediary, and by holding claims on other firms. When there is no aggregate uncertainty, we show that these instruments are sufficient for attaining the socially optimal (second-best) contract between investors and firms. Such a contract imposes both a maximum leverage ratio and a liquidity constraint on firms. Intermediaries coordinate the use of liquidity. Without intermediation, scarce liquidity may be wasted and the social optimum may not be attainable. When there is only aggregate uncertainty the private sector is no longer self-sufficient with regard to liquidity. The government can improve liquidity by issuing bonds that commit future consumer income. Government bonds command a liquidity premium over private claims. The supply of liquidity can be managed by loosening liquidity (boosting the value of its securities) when the aggregate liquidity shock is high and tightening liquidity when the shock is low. The paper thus provides a microeconomic example of government supplied liquidity as well as of the possibility of active government policy.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' We develop a model of unregulated competition between interconnected networks and analyze the mature and transition phases of the industry in this deregulated environment. Networks pay (negotiated or regulated) access charges to each other and compete in prices for customers. We show that a competitive equilibrium may fail to exist for large access charges or for large network substitutability, and that freely negotiated access charges may prevent effective competition in the mature phase of the industry and erect barriers to entry in the transition toward competition. Last, we examine the meaning and impact of policies such as the efficient component pricing rule.'] ["[eng] This note aims at clarifying the debate on \xc2\xab abnormally low prices \xc2\xbb, where many arguments rely on predatory pricing behaviour. It thus offers a survey of : \xe2\x80\x94predatory pricing theory, \xe2\x80\x94detection problems (are they different from collusion or dominant position detection problems ?) \xe2\x80\x94pr\xc3\xa9dation in competition law and policy. The first part of this note thus surveys the existing literature on predatory pricing. Its implications for competition policy are then discussed. The concluding section gathers the economic arguments that have been presented and, in the light of the French competition law, offers some comments that may help clarifying the debate. [fre] Cette note vise \xc3\xa0 \xc3\xa9clairer le d\xc3\xa9bat sur la notion de prix anormalement bas, les arguments avanc\xc3\xa9s \xc3\xa0 ce propos recoupant notamment ce qu'il est convenu d'appeler des pratiques de pr\xc3\xa9dation. En cons\xc3\xa9quence, il est propos\xc3\xa9 une synth\xc3\xa8se sur : \xe2\x80\x94la notion de prix de pr\xc3\xa9dation, \xe2\x80\x94ses probl\xc3\xa8mes de d\xc3\xa9tection (peut-on l'appr\xc3\xa9hender ind\xc3\xa9pendamment du constat d'une entente ou d'une position dominante ?) \xe2\x80\x94les conditions de son appr\xc3\xa9hension, d'un point de vue \xc3\xa9conomique, dans le droit de la concurrence. La premi\xc3\xa8re partie offre donc une synth\xc3\xa8se de la litt\xc3\xa9rature existante relative \xc3\xa0 la th\xc3\xa9orie \xc3\xa9conomique de la notion de prix de pr\xc3\xa9dation. Il en est ensuite discut\xc3\xa9 les implications en mati\xc3\xa8re de politique de la concurrence. La conclusion rassemble les arguments \xc3\xa9voqu\xc3\xa9s et, \xc3\xa0 la lumi\xc3\xa8re de la l\xc3\xa9gislation fran\xc3\xa7aise actuelle, propose plusieurs conclusions susceptibles d'\xc3\xa9clairer utilement le d\xc3\xa9bat."] [" This paper develops a theory of the allocation of formal and real authority within organizations. Real authority is determined by the structure of information, which in turn depends on the allocation of formal authority. An increase in an agent's real authority promotes initiative but results in a loss of control for the principal. The paper analyzes the allocation of formal authority as well as some determinants of the subordinates' real authority: overload, lenient rules, urgency of decision, reputation, performance measurement, and multiplicity of superiors. Finally, the amount of communication in an organization is shown to depend on the allocation of formal authority. Copyright 1997 by the University of Chicago."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The authors study an incentive model of financial intermediation in which firms as well as intermediaries are capital constrained. They analyze how the distribution of wealth across firms, intermediaries, and uninformed investors affects investment, interest rates, and the intensity of monitoring. The authors show that all forms of capital tightening (a credit crunch, a collateral squeeze, or a savings squeeze) hit poorly capitalized firms the hardest, but that interest rate effects and the intensity of monitoring will depend on relative changes in the various components of capital. The predictions of the model are broadly consistent with the lending patterns observed during the recent financial crises. Copyright 1997, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The determination of interconnection charges is the key to the introduction of competition in telecommunications, electricity, gas, postal services, and several other industries. The paper first recaps standard regulatory policies for interconnection. It then provides a simple account of theoretical considerations in the matter of setting access charges, and analyzes existing policies in this light. In view of the shortcomings of these policies, it proposes a new and simple rule, labelled global price cap, which is theoretically more satisfactory and informationally no more and often less demanding than existing rules. Copyright 1996 by Kluwer Academic Publishers'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The paper is a first attempt at modeling the idea of group reputation as an aggregate of individual reputations. A member's current incentives are affected by his past behavior and, because his track record is observed only with noise, by the group's past behavior as well. The paper thus studies the joint dynamics of individual and collective reputations and derives the existence of stereotypes from history dependence rather than from a multiplicity of equilibria or from the existence of a common trait as is usually done in the literature. It shows that new members of an organization may suffer from an original sin of their elders long after the latter are gone, and it derives necessary and sufficient conditions under which group reputations can be rebuilt. Last, the paper applies the theory to analyze when a large firm can maintain a reputation for quality. Copyright 1996 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited."] [" Systemic risk refers to the propagation of a bank's economic distress to other economic agents linked to that bank through financial transactions. Banking authorities often prevent systemic risk through an implicit insurance of interbank claims, or by reducing interbank transactions and centralizing banks' liquidity management. This paper investigates whether the flexability afforded by decentralized bank interactions can be preserved while protecting the central banks from the necessity of conducting undesired rescue operations. It develops a model in which decentralized interbank leading is motivated by peer monitoring. In this context, the paper derives the optimal prudential rules, and, in particular, looks at the impact of interbank monitoring on the solvency and liquidity ratios of borrowing and lending banks. Last, it provides conditions which a Too Big To Fail policy is or is not justified and studies the possibility of propagation of a bank's liquidity shock throughout the financial system. Copyright 1996 by Ohio State University Press."] [" Income smoothing is the process of manipulating the time profile of earnings or earnings reports to make the reported income stream less variable. This paper builds a theory of income smoothing based on the managers' concern about keeping their position or avoiding interference, and on the idea that current performance receives more weight than past performance when one is assessing the future. When investment is added to the model, so that income reports and dividends can be set independently, the authors find that both dividends and income reports may be smoothed and that dividends may convey information not present in the income report. Copyright 1995 by University of Chicago Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper analyzes the organization of the R&amp;D; activity in an incomplete contract framework. It provides theoretical foundations to understand how the allocation of property rights on innovations may affect both the frequency and the magnitude of these innovations; to rationalize commonly observed features in research employment contracts, such as shop rights, trailer clauses, and the 'hired for' doctrine; to discuss the robustness of the so-called Schumpeterian hypotheses to endogenizing the organization of R&amp;D; and to provide a rationale for cofinancing arrangements in research activities. Copyright 1994, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper shows how the optimal financial structure of a firm complements incentive schemes to discipline managers, and how the securities' return streams determine the claimholders' incentives to intervene in management. The theory rationalizes (1) the multiplicity of securities, (2) the observed correlation between return streams and control rights of securities, and (3) the partial congruence between managerial and equityholder preferences over policy choices and monetary rewards as well as the low level of interference of equity in management. The theory also offers new prospects for a reappraisal of the earlier corporate finance literature. Copyright 1994, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] [' The paper discusses some specificities of the design of incentives in the public sector and their implications: multiplicity of goals, unclear weighing of these goals, and nonmeasurability of some of them; lack of comparison; heterogeneity of tastes and dispersion of principals. The paper then analyzes career concerns, associated with the prospect of reselection, promotion, or employment in the private sector, and articulated around some mission. There is a potential multiplicity of missions that can be followed by rational officials. The last part studies the division of labor within government, in particular division of labor among ministries and the use of multiple principals to control economic agents, and division of labor aimed at creating information for public decision making and the use of enfranchised advocates of specific interests. Copyright 1994 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper shows that the stock price incorporates performance information that cannot be extracted from the firm's current or future profit data. The additional information is useful for structuring managerial incentives. The amount of information contained in the stock price depends on the liquidity of the market. Concentrated ownership, by reducing market liquidity, reduces the benefits of market monitoring. Integration is associated with weakened managerial incentives and less market monitoring. The paper also studies the equilibrium size of the stock market as a function of investor preferences and the available amounts of long- and short-term capital. Copyright 1993 by University of Chicago Press."] [' This paper formalizes and studies the argument of cartelization of industries through captured agencies. An agency can affect entry by a producer of a differentiated commodity in the market of a regulated natural monopoly through the manipulation of information it produces about the benefit of entry. Entry may be socially efficient because it enhances product diversity, or inefficient because it creates a duplication of fixed costs. We first show that because of informational asymmetries the agency will tend to prohibit entry. However with a rational political principal, the threat of regulatory capture increases the likelihood of entry. The effect of regulatory capture on incentives in the natural monopoly is also studied and the results are discussed and extended in various ways. Copyright 1993 by Kluwer Academic Publishers'] [' A principal has private information that directly affects her agent\'s payoff (i.e., "common values" obtains). The authors analyze their relationship as a three-stage game: (1) the principal proposes a contract; (2) the agent accepts or rejects; and (3) the contract is executed. They show that the equilibrium outcomes are the allocations that weakly Pareto dominate the allocation maximizing the payoff of each "type" of the principal within the class of incentive-compatible allocations ensuring the agent his reservation utility irrespective of his beliefs about the principal\'s type. The authors also characterize the equilibria that are immune to renegotiation. Copyright 1992 by The Econometric Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper first studies how cost padding, auditing and collusion with auditors affect the power of incentive schemes in procurement and regulation. Unaudited cost padding requires fixed price contracts. Incentive schemes are more powerful under imperfect auditing than under perfect auditing and less powerful than under no auditing. The effect of collusion in auditing on the optimal power of incentive schemes is ambiguous; high-powered schemes reduce the incentive for cost padding and thus are less affected by collusion; however, they also yield higher rents and therefore make firms more willing to prevent release of evidence of cost padding. Monitoring of effort, the second topic of this paper, is a substitute for the use of low-powered incentive schemes to extract the informational rents. It thus enables the regulator to afford more powerful incentive schemes. Collusion in auditing unambiguously lowers the power of incentive schemes.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The paper develops an agency-theoretic approach to interest-group politics and shows the following: (1) the organizational response to the possibility of regulatory agency politics is to reduce the stakes interest groups have in regulation; (2) the threat of producer protection leads to low-powered incentive schemes for regulated firms; (3) consumer politics may induce uniform pricing by a multiproduct firm; and (4) an interest group has more power when its interest lies in inefficient rather than efficient regulation, where inefficiency is measured by the degree of informational asymmetry between the regulated industry and the political principal (Congress). Copyright 1991, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [' As was shown by M. Dewatripont (1986), optimal long-term contracts under asymmetric information are generally not time-consistent. This paper fully characterizes the equilibrium of a two-period procurement model with commitment and renegotiation. It also analyzes whether renegotiated long-term contracts yield outcomes resembling those under either unrenegotiated long-term contracts or a sequence of short-term contracts, and links the analysis with the multiple unit durable good monopoly problem. Copyright 1990 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper develops a normative model of regulatory policy toward bypass and cream skimming. It analyzes the effects of bypass on second-degree price discrimination, on the rent of the regulated firm, and on the welfare of low-demand customers. It shows that pricing under marginal cost may be optimal for the regulated firm, excessive cream skimming occurs if access to the bypass technology is not regulated, and the prohibition of bypass may increase or decrease the regulated firm's rent. Copyright 1990 by American Economic Association."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The authors analyze the principal-agent relationship when the principal has private information as a three-stage game: contract proposal, acceptance/refusal, and contract execution. They assume that the information does not directly affect the agent\'s payoff (private values). Equilibrium exists and is generically locally unique. Moreover, it is Pareto optimal for the different types of principal. The principal generically does strictly better than when the agent knows her information. Equilibrium allocations are the Walrasian equilibria of an "economy" where the traders are different types of principal and "exchange" the slack on the agent\'s individual rationality and incentive compatibility constraints. Copyright 1990 by The Econometric Society.'] [" The authors modify the standard principal-agent model with oral hazard by allowing the contract to be renegotiated after the agent's choice of action and before the observation of the action's consequences. In equilibrium, the agent randomizes over effort levels. The optimal contract gives the agent a menu of compensation schemes: safe ones intended for low-effort workers and risky ones for those whose effort is high. The optimal contract may give the agent a positive rent, in contrast to the case without renegotiation. Copyright 1990 by The Econometric Society."] [" This article considers a two-period model of natural monopoly and second-sourcing. The incumbent supplier invests in the first period. After observing the incumbent's first-period performance, the buyer may break out in the second period. The investment may or may not be transferable to the second source, and it may be monetary or take the form of human capital. We determine whether the incumbent should be favored at the reprocurement stage, and how the slope of his incentive scheme should evolve over time. We find that the gains from second-sourcing are not so large as one might hope. Finally, we reinterpret the second source as a raider and the breakout as a takeover. We discuss the desirability of defensive tactics and obtain a rich set of testable implications concerning the size of managerial stock options, the extent of defensive tactics, the firm's performance, and the probability of a takeover."] [' The authors introduce a class of alternating-move, infinite-horizon models of duopoly. The timing captures the presence of short-run commitment s. They apply this framework to a natural monopoly in which costs are so large that at most one firm can make a profit. The firms install short-run capacity. In the unique symmetric Markov perfect equilibriu m, only one firm is active and practices the quantity analogue of lim it pricing. For commitments of brief duration, the market is almost c ontestable. The authors conclude with a discussion of more general mo dels where the alternating timing is derived rather than imposed. Copyright 1988 by The Econometric Society.'] ['This paper starts by discussing some nonstandard issues in organization theory: bou nded rationality; incomplete contracting; and collusive behavior, on which the rest of the paper focuses. It then contrasts the comprehens ive contracting and game theoretic approaches to collusion, and it li sts tentative conclusions and some unresolved issues.'] [' This article reviews the recent literature on regulation under asymmetric information. We first develop the conceptual framework and offer a reminder of the techniques used in the field. Then we apply the framework and techniques to a variety of situations -- with or without commitment. We conclude with a discussion of desirable directions for research.'] [" This paper studies a two-period principal/agent relationship run by short-term contracts. The principal updates the incentive scheme aft er observing the agent's first-period performance. The agent has superio r information about his ability. The principal offers a first-period incentive scheme and observes some measure of the agent's first-perio d performance (cost or profit), which depends on the agent's ability an d (unobservable) first-period effort. The central theme is that the ratchet effect leads to much pooling. For any first-period incentive scheme, there exists no separating equilibrium. The paper gives necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of partition equilibria and looks at the effect of cost uncertainty. Copyright 1988 by The Econometric Society."] [' The authors provide game theoretic foundations for the classic kinke d demand curve and Edgeworth cycle. In their alternating-move model, there are multiple Markov perfect equilibria of both the kinked deman d curve and Edgeworth cycle variety. In any Markov perfect equilibria , profit is bounded away from the Bertrand equilibria level. A kinked demand curve at the monopoly price is the unique symmetric "renegot iation proof" equilibrium when there is little discounting. The auth ors then endogenize the timing by allowing firms to move at any time. They find that firms end up alternating, thus vindicating the fixed timing assumption of the simpler model. Copyright 1988 by The Econometric Society.'] [' Consider a long-term relationship between a seller and buyer whose valuation (for a durable good) is private. As trade progresses, the valuation will be partially revealed and it may be possible for the parties to commit ex ante not to take advantage of this. The authors analyze this first by supposing that the parties can sign a sequence of short-term contracts; and secondly by supposing that they can sign a long-term contract, but cannot commit not to renegotiate it. They find a close relationship in the second case between the optimal long-term contract and the noncommitment outcome in the standard Coasian durabl e good model. Copyright 1988 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper draws a remarkably simple bridge between auction theory and incentive theory. It considers the auctioning of an indivisible project among several fi rms. The firms have private information about their future cost at th e bidding stage, and the selected firm ex post invests in cost reduct ion. The authors show that (1) the optimal auction can be implemented by a dominant strategy auction that uses information about both the first bid and the second bid; (2) the winner faces a (linear) incenti ve contract; (3) the fixed transfer to the winner decreases with his announced expected cost and increases with the second lowest announce d expected cost; and (4) the share of cost overruns borne by the winn er decreases with the winner's announced expected cost. Copyright 1987 by University of Chicago Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We consider two kinds of \xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xcb\x9coutside opportunity\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x84\xa2 that a seller of an indivisible good might have: selling to a different buyer and consuming the good herself. In both models the seller is uncertain about the buyer\'s valuation, and becomes more pessimistic over time. When the seller becomes sufficiently pessimistic, she prefers the outside opportunity, so she will not bargain indefinitely with the current buyer. Despite the resulting finite-horizon nature of negotiations, the link between the buyer\'s willingness to accept an offer and the seller\'s eagerness to go "outside" generates multiple equilibria.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper shows how the principal-agent approach, applied to the study of relationships between producers and retailers, can yield new insights in the analysis of vertical restraints such as resale price maintenance, exclusive territories agreements, or tieins... The paper surveys some alrealy wellknown results and presents new arguments which take in account the informational context of these relationships.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We develop progressively models enabling us to characterize optimal contracts between government and firms when uncertainty and various types of asymmetric information (moral hazard and adverse selection) are present. We obtain normative contracts which are close to commonly used contracts with a linear sharing of overruns.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We propose a new theory of predation based on "signal-jamming." In our model the predator\'s characteristics are common knowledge, while the entrant is uncertain of his own future profitability. The entrant uses his current profit to decide whether to remain in the market, and the predator preys to "jam" or interfere with this inference problem. Thus, our model differs from those based on "reputation effects," in which the predator preys to signal information about himself.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["[fre] L'article proc\xc3\xa8de \xc3\xa0 une revue de la litt\xc3\xa9rature th\xc3\xa9orique sur la recherche-d\xc3\xa9veloppe\xc2\xadment. Il aborde deux th\xc3\xa8mes principaux : valeur priv\xc3\xa9e et valeur sociale d'une inno\xc2\xadvation brevet\xc3\xa9e, comp\xc3\xa9tition pour l'innovation.. Les incitations priv\xc3\xa9es \xc3\xa0 l'innovation sont d'abord examin\xc3\xa9es en fonction de la formule adopt\xc3\xa9e pour l'exploitation d'une invention (brevet unique, licence de brevet) et de la structure du march\xc3\xa9 pr\xc3\xa9 et post innovation (concurrence, monopole, oligopole).. La seconde partie concentre l'attention sur les mod\xc3\xa8les o\xc3\xb9 la comp\xc3\xa9tition pour l'innovation est assimil\xc3\xa9e \xc3\xa0 une course et o\xc3\xb9 le ph\xc3\xa9nom\xc3\xa8ne de pr\xc3\xa9emption joue un r\xc3\xb4le d\xc3\xa9terminant. [eng] The economics of R-D . Introduction to the pure theory. Roger Guesnerie, Jean Tirole. The article reviews the theoretical literature on R-D. Two themes are considered : the comparison of private and social value of an innovation, the competition for an innovation ; innovations being protected by patents.. The private incentives to innovate are first examined according to the modalities of the exploitation of the invention and according to the pre and post innovation market structure (perfect competition, monopoly, oligopoly).. The second part focuses on models where competition for innovation is formalized as a race and where preemption has a crucial role."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This article studies the implications of learning-by-doing for market conduct and performance. We use a general continuous-time model to show that output increases over time in the absence of strategic interactions, and that a monopolist learns too slowly, compared with the social optimum. We then specialize to a two-period model with linear demand and learning to analyze the case in which firms do consider the effect of their learning on the actions of their rivals. We show that strategic incentives can induce firms to choose decreasing output paths, and that a little diffusion of learning across firms increases output if firms are naive, but decreases output if firms play strategically. We further show that increased learning improves welfare, and that welfare can be improved by using a balanced-budget tax-subsidy scheme which transfers production incentives to the less competitive "mature" phase of the industry.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['[fre] Cet article consid\xc3\xa8re la litt\xc3\xa9rature sur le taux d\'actualisation en situation d\'opti\xc2\xadmum second. Apr\xc3\xa8s examen des raisons pour lesquelles l\'approche en termes d\'optimum premier est inad\xc3\xa9quate, et des quelques arguments s\'y rattachant, dis\xc2\xadtinction est faite entre mod\xc3\xa8les \xc2\xab de politique optimale \xc2\xbb et mod\xc3\xa8les \xc2\xab de r\xc3\xa9forme \xc2\xbb. L\'accent est mis sur la notion importante de co\xc3\xbbt d\'opportunit\xc3\xa9 des fonds publics. Celle-ci ne doit pas \xc3\xaatre confondue avec la notion de co\xc3\xbbt de raret\xc3\xa9 des fonds publics, dont cet article donne une pr\xc3\xa9sentation rigoureuse. [eng] The social rate of discount and the theory of the second best. Jean Tirole. This paper considers the (second best) theory of the social rate of discount. To begin with, the inadequacy of the first best approach and of some related arguments is shown ; then the different contributions are divided in " optimal policy models " and " reform models ". The important notion of opportunity cost of public funds is emphasized ; it should not be confused with the notion of scarcity cost of public funds, whose formalization is given in this paper.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']