 [' Energy efficiency improvement is a desirable response to growing climate change and security of energy supply concerns. This article studies the impacts of a varied set of macro-level market-oriented reforms as well as structural change on economy-wide measure of energy efficiency across a group of the transition countries. These countries experienced a rapid marketization process, which, since the early 1990s, transformed their economies from central planning towards market-driven models. We use a bias-corrected fixed-effect analysis technique to estimate this effect for the period 1990 to 2010. The results suggest that reforms aimed at market liberalization, financial sector and most infrastructure industries drove energy efficiency improvements. We find significant differences in improvements in energy efficiency between transitional Central European and Baltic States, South East Europe ones and the Commonwealth of Independent States. The reasons for these differences are also discussed.'] ["The commencement of agriculture in the Holocene era is usually seen as heralding the beginning of a chain of events that eventually resulted in the Industrial Revolution and in modern economic development. The purpose of this paper is to outline and critically review theories about why and how agriculture first began. It also classifies these theories according to whether they are based on agriculture's development as a response to food deprivation, to a food surplus, or neither of these factors. Because agriculture began independently in several different geographical centres, it seems unlikely that the switch of early societies from hunting and gathering to agriculture was the result of the same cause in all of these locations. Moreover, the paper provides some new suggestions as to why hunters and gatherers were motivated to commence or increase their dependence on agriculture in some locations. Views about the role of natural resources and institutions in the development of agriculture are also discussed."] ['No abstract received.'] ['It is argued that there is neither regular relationship between changes in the level of the market rate of interest and variations in the rate of biodiversity loss nor does such a regular relationship occur between alterations in the market rate of interest and changes in the rate of natural resource extraction. However, some texts suggest otherwise. Microeconomic examples are given in which a rise in the market rate of interest results in increased biodiversity loss and others in which it does not. It is also posited that the rate of biodiversity loss (as well as the rate of natural resource extraction) tends to rise with the level of aggregate investment and aggregate economic activity. It is demonstrated, using macroeconomic models, that the market rate of interest can increase or decrease with a rise in aggregate investment and also with an increase in the level of aggregate economic activity. Therefore, changes in biodiversity loss (and in the rate of natural resource extraction) are independent of variations in the market rate of interest in macroeconomic models.'] ['The extent to which conservation is feasible is constrained by budgets and the financial sacrifice stakeholders are willing to bear. Therefore a possible objective for conserving a species is to minimise the cost of achieving that stated aim. For example, if a minimum viable population (MVP) of a species is to be conserved, the size and type of habitats reserved for this could be selected to minimise cost. This requires consideration of the comparative (relative) opportunity costs of reserving different land types for conservation. A general model is developed to demonstrate this and is applied to the case of the orangutan. In the ecological literature, recommendations for reserving different types of land for conservation have been based on comparisons of either the absolute economic returns they generate if converted to commercial use or on differences in the density of a species they support. These approaches are shown to be deficient because they ignore relative trade-offs between species population and economic conversion gains at alternative sites. The proposed model is illustrated for orangutan conservation.'] ["The precautionary principle was included in 1992 in the Rio Declaration and is part of important international agreements such as the Convention on Biological Diversity. Yet, it is not a straight-forward guide for environmental policy because many interpretations are possible as shown in this paper. Its different economic versions can result in conflicting policy recommendations about resource conservation. The principle does not always favor (natural) resource conservation (e.g., biodiversity conservation) although it has been adopted politically on the assumption it does. The principle's consequences are explored for biodiversity conservation when the introduction of new genotypes is possible."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['It is widely believed that in developing countries, open-access to natural resources, inadequate private property rights, and lack of development of market systems add to the incidence of poverty. Increased economic efficiency is seen as a powerful force for reducing the extent of poverty in developing countries in the long run. While this may be so, it ignores the depth and incidence of poverty that can be generated during adjustments to policy reforms. This possibility constrains policy choices as shown theoretically on natural resource policies and agricultural adjustment policies with Asian examples. Social, behavioral, and institutional features are also considered as they may result in the poverty lock-in of some groups. It is essential to consider dynamic processes and not to rely solely on comparative statics when assessing economic policies to reduce poverty and increase economic efficiency. It is also important to take into account the institutional constraints on policy choices.'] [" Indigenous Australians have socioeconomic attributes similar to those of residents in some developing countries. Their utilisation of wildlife could add to their economic opportunities. Attitudes of a sample of the Australian public towards the subsistence use of wildlife by Indigenous Australians and whether or not they should be allowed to sell wildlife and wildlife products are examined. Allowing such possibilities could provide economic incentives for nature conservation among local people. We explore whether those sampled believe that Indigenous Australians should do more than other groups and institutions to conserve Australia's tropical species, and whether or not they should be allowed to take common as well as endangered wildlife species for food. Attitudes of the sampled public towards Indigenous Australians earning income from trophy hunting and from the harvesting of northern long-necked turtles for the pet trade are canvassed. The possible conservation consequences of sale of wildlife by Indigenous Australians are discussed."] ["Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The purpose of this paper is to outline the cause of global warming, its trends and consequences as indicated by the International Panel on Climate Change. Sea-level rise is one consequence of particular concern to Pacific Island states. It also reviews the views of economists about connections between economic growth and global warming. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 International efforts, such as through the Kyoto protocol, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and their atmospheric concentration are discussed and prospects for post-Kyoto policies are considered. Ways are also examined of addressing the consequences of global warming for the Pacific Island states. How they will be affected and to what extent is discussed, together with their ability to cope with the emerging problem. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 The paper finds that whereas the majority of economists did not foresee a conflict between economic growth and global warming, the possibility of such a conflict is now more widely recognized following the Stern Report. It is predicted that a significant reduction in global greenhouse gas emissions is unlikely to be achieved in the foreseeable future owing to conflicting national interest (a prisoners' dilemma problem) and because is will take time to develop new technologies which will reduce greenhouse gas emissions. However, payment for greenhouse gas emissions (for example, via tradable permits) will accelerate desirable technological advance. Both international political action and efforts to develop and use technologies that lower greenhouse gas emissions need to be pursued. Given current and likely increases in greenhouse gas emissions, continuing global warming in this century (and beyond) appears to be inevitable and consequently Pacific Island states will be adversely affected by sea-level rise and climate change. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 The paper emphasizes that Pacific Island states will suffer great hardship from global warming but are ill-placed geographically, financially and administratively to prevent or adjust to the possible environmental disasters that await them. Nothing may save some from eventual environmental annihilation."] ['This paper draws attention to the dynamic effects of information provision, experience and memory in the contingent valuation of environmental goods. Psychological and economic theories are used to suggest possible trajectories for contingent values of these goods in relation to these effects. Our case study of a rare wildlife species shows the possibility of marked changes from information provision and, together with other evidence, exposure to the good. It is hypothesised that the impact of these effects decays with the passage of time. The selection of the appropriate contingent value for policy purposes is discussed.'] [" Provides empirical evidence of deficient knowledge of public goods and experiential commodities. It considers whether information provision about the characteristics of these commodities is likely to result in individuals' finding their 'true' preferences, and identifies the nature of information that should be conveyed to enable commodities to be appropriately valued. It recognises that some commodities contain attributes that individuals are unable to evaluate. Furthermore, individuals acquire and filter information about commodities, and these endogenous activities require analysis. Cost-benefit analysis of information acquisition suggests that individuals are less likely to acquire information about public goods than private goods. Even when underlying meta-values of commodities are stationary, perceived values of commodities may vary due to elicitation procedures and information provision, and subsequent crowding out and forgetting of information about the focal commodities. This makes it difficult to determine the appropriate contingent values to use."] [' "The paper reports the findings of an experimental survey conducted to determine the public\'s willingness to pay (WTP) for the protection and conservation of the golden-shouldered parrot in Australia. This parrot is endemic to Australia and is one of Australia\'s most endangered birds. The paper examines the public\'s knowledge of this parrot and compares it with other endangered birds as well as common birds and the public\'s WTP for conservation from a hypothetical allocation of money based on their current knowledge. We then examine how this allocation changes with increased knowledge about all species." Copyright No Claim to Original U.S. Government Works.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Chang seems to suggest that developing closer relations between Transaction Cost Economics (TCE) and the Resource-Based View (RBV) is not yet needed. However, we are unmoved in our belief that this development is compelling and remain committed to our approach to pluralism. We disagree with Chang's critiques of our approach. We clarify that a synthesis of TCE and RBV along the lines of theoretical monism is not attempted. On this basis, two of the three questions raised, labelled 'ontological dissonance' and 'variable multicollinearity', are not applicable. With regard to the other question that relates to refutability, Barney has shown that the variables are refutable and Barney also makes reference to empirical work pertaining to RBV. We agree with Chang that TCE is weak on differential production and believe that an acceptance of the coexistence of TCE and RBV is likely to make both theories more successful on the issue of vertical integration. In the end, pluralism appeals as much to us as it does to the chief proponents of TCE and RBV, as a means of making progress in the near term."] [' The authors use experimental surveys to investigate the association between individuals\' knowledge of particular wildlife species and their stated willingness to allocate funds to conserve each. The nature of variations in these allocations between species (e.g., their dispersion) as participants\' knowledge increases is examined. Factors influencing these changes are suggested. Willingness-to-pay allocations are found not to measure the economic value of species, but are shown to be policy relevant. The results indicate that poorly known species, e.g., in remote areas, may obtain relatively less conservation support than they deserve. (JEL "Q51", "Q57", "Q58") Copyright 2006 Western Economic Association International.'] [" Places the conservation status of Australian reptile species in global context and examines the pattern of public support for conserving different species of tropical Australian reptiles. The percentage of respondents favouring survival of each of the species is reported and also the average amount respondents state they are willing to allocate from a fixed funding pie for the conservation of each. The relationship between these variables and participants' stated likeability of the reptile species is investigated. Strong positive association exists between likeability and both of the above-mentioned variables. However, the degree of comparative endangerment of species may also strongly influence participants' allocation of conservation funds. Relative support for the survival and conservation of the focal reptile species accords with the ranking expected on the basis of Judaic-Christian traditions. Nevertheless, more support for the conservation of the focal reptiles, even for the least liked species, occurs than this tradition would suggest."] ['We investigate the dynamics of a cobweb model with heterogeneous beliefs, generalising the example of Brock and Hommes (1997). We examine situations where the agents form expectations by using either perfect foresight, or a form of adaptive expectations with limited memory defined from the last two prices. We specify conditions that generate cycles. These conditions depend on a set of factors that includes the proportion of rational agents, the intensity of switching between beliefs, and the adaption parameter. We show that both Flip bifurcation and Neimark-Sacker bifurcation can occur as primary bifurcation when the steady state is unstable.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 To provide and assess trends on the status of women in Bangladesh in terms of key macro level indicators namely, women's labour force participation, educational attainments and earnings vis-\xc3\xa0-vis men. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 The trends in women's workforce participation, educational attainments and earnings compared with those of men are evaluated on the basis of descriptive statistics. Correlation and regression techniques are used to examine the relationship between women's education and workforce participation, and to predict the equalisation of female-male educational attainment. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 The study finds evidence of growing commercialisation of women's work in Bangladesh. Although most women in the workforce are self-employed or employed in low-skill jobs, their participation in high skill and entrepreneurial jobs as well as policy-making bodies is on the rise. While gender wage differentials have been considerably reduced in many industries, in general, women tend to be paid less than men. There have been remarkable improvements in women's educational attainments. Further, female education is found to be positively correlated with their workforce participation. Overall, the findings indicate an improvement in women's status in Bangladesh. Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 The suggested relationship between women's education and employment needs to be further investigated using rigorous econometric techniques in order to distinguish between productivity-enhancing effects of education and other determinants of increased female employment (FEMPL). Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 The research should be a useful reference to international and domestic policy-makers as well as members of the academia and future researchers on the issue. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 This study represents the first of its kind in the Bangladesh context. It provides valuable information about, and an independent assessment of, women's status in Bangladesh at the national level."] ['Global biodiversity loss and its consequences for human welfare and sustainable development have become major concerns. Economists have, therefore, given increasing attention to the policy issues involved in the management of genetic resources. To do so, they often apply empirical methods developed in behavioral and experimental economics to estimate economic values placed on genetic resources. This trend away from almost exclusive dependence on axiomatic methods is welcomed. However, major valuation methods used in behavioral economics raise new scientific challenges. Possibly the most important of these include deficiencies in the knowledge of the public (and researchers) about genetic resources, implications for the formation of values of supplying information to focal individuals, and limits to rationality.These issues are explored for stated-preference techniques of valuation (e.g., contingent valuation) as well as revealed preference techniques, especially the travel cost method. They are illustrated by Australian and Asian examples. Taking into account behavioral and psychological models and empirical evidence, particular attention is given to how elicitation of preferences, and supply of information to individuals, influences their preferences about biodiversity. Policy consequences are outlined.'] ["Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The objective is to determine the influence of economic and social/cultural factors on family size and child gender preferences in rural Kenya and to draw public policy implications from the results. This is an important matter because the fertility rate in Kenya is high; higher than in most developing countries. It is especially high in rural areas. This may be an impediment to Kenya's development. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 First relevant economic literature is reviewed to identify factors that economists and others claim are important influences on family size. Then follows a case study of families in the Nyeri district of Kenya. Data are obtained from a random sample of households in this district using a semi-structured questionnaire in direct interviews. The survey results are summarised and then analysed using Tobit analysis and least squares regression. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 Both economic and social/cultural factors are found to be important influences on family size. For example, preference for male children has an important positive influence on family size in the Nyeri district. Women are found to prefer male offspring to daughters, possibly because they are afraid of being disinherited if they do not produce a male heir for their husbands. Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 Support for the conclusions reached could be strengthened or further assessed by increasing the sample size in the Nyeri district and be conducting similar surveys in other rural districts of Kenya. Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 Introducing social security systems in Kenya to assist the elderly and the infirm would reduce the need for Kenyan women to have many children as security and women should be granted greater inheritance rights, especially to land. Furthermore, education of women should be promoted as a way to reduce family size. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 This paper reinforces the view that both economic and social/cultural factors must be considered simultaneously when examining determinants of the number of children in a family and child gender preference"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The purpose is to outline and illustrate the economic theory of parental self-interest and its implications for the entitlements of children according to their gender, and using empirical data, to determine the extent to which the theory is reflected in discrimination of parents against female siblings in different communities in eastern India. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 Using economic analysis, this paper outlines and illustrates the basis of the economics of parental discrimination against female children and structured questionnaires are used to collect data from village rural wives in the Santal tribal belt of West Bengal and in Orissa in Kondh-dominated village to determine the extent to which economics explains parental discrimination between daughters and sons. The selection of the areas has been done on the basis that their different cultural dimensions may affect parental attitudes to female children. The statistical significance of differences in responses between the West Bengal sample and that from Orissa is tested using the chi-squared test. Implications of the results for theory of parental discrimination between siblings according to their gender are outlined. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 It is found that parental discrimination in favour of boys and against girls is much more marked in the Santal-dominated belt of West Bengal than in the Kondh-dominated villages of Orissa, where it is absent or virtually so. This is the case despite similar economic conditions and the fact that all the sampled villagers are relatively poor. Differences in cultural values seem to explain the difference. Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 Results could be strengthened by using a similar questionnaire to survey wives in additional villages in the Santal tribal-belt of West Bengal and in more Kondh-dominated villages in Orissa, as well as in other cultural contexts. Furthermore, families in these areas are patriarchal. It would be interesting to obtain results also from Indian communities that have matriarchal families as in parts of Meghalaya. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 The findings support the view that the behaviour of parents towards children (according to their gender or otherwise) is a combined result of personal parental goals, social structures and cultural values. Economic theories of the family are likely to be too narrow and may be misleading in their predictions unless they take into account the institutional and cultural contexts in which families exist.'] [' Reports results from a contingent valuation survey of willingness to pay for the conservation of the Asian elephant of a sample of urban residents living in three selected housing schemes in Colombo, the capital of Sri Lanka. Face\xe2\x80\x93to\xe2\x80\x93face surveys were conducted using an interview schedule. A non-linear logit regression model is used to analyse the respondents\xe2\x80\x99 responses for the payment principle questions and to identify the factors that influence their responses. We investigate whether urban residents\xe2\x80\x99 willingness to pay for the conservation of elephants is sufficient to compensate farmers for the damage caused by elephants. We find that the beneficiaries (the urban residents) could compensate losers (the farmers in the areas affected by human\xe2\x80\x93elephant conflict) and be better off than in the absence of elephants in Sri Lanka. Therefore, there is a strong economic case for the conservation of the wild elephant population in Sri Lanka. However, we have insufficient data to determine the optimal level of this elephant population in the Kaldor-Hicks sense. Nevertheless, the current population of elephant in Sri Lanka is Kaldor-Hicks preferable to having none.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' To reduce the rate of human-induced biodiversity loss of wild species, it has become increasingly important to stem this loss on private lands. Some writers believe that granting landholders commercial property rights in wildlife will be effective in dealing with this matter and will result in the preservation of biodiversity. This paper explores this view using economic theory. In doing so, it takes into account the total economic valuation concept. While granting of commercial property rights is found to be effective for conserving some species, it is predicted to be a complete failure as a means of conserving other species and also to vary in its potential for success in different regions of the world. The Southern African policy cannot be effective everywhere. Here, particular attention is given to the economics of utilisation and conservation of non-captive fugitive (or mobile) wildlife.'] [" In an earlier note, Collins and Tisdell (2002b) explored the possibility of a long-run relationship between Australian business returns and international business travel. Using annual data they found that such a relationship exists. The purpose of this study is to further examine this relationship using quarterly data for the time frame 1974:1 to 1999:4. In addition, previous studies on international business travel have offered some but not strong evidence for the existence of a positive relationship between the level of international business travel and real GDP of the origin country. This study suggests that the aggregate return on business investments is a better predictor of international business travel than GDP. The Engle-Granger and Johansen's maximum-likelihood cointegration procedures are used to show a long-term relationship exists between Australian outbound business travel and Australian business returns, but not with Real Australian GDP. Reasons for this relationship are discussed. Copyright Blackwell Publishing Ltd/University of Adelaide and Flinders University of South Australia 2004."] [' This paper provides a profit-maximizing modelwith vessel-level dolphin mortality limits forpurse seiners harvesting tunas in the easterntropical Pacific Ocean. The model analyticallyderives the shadow price (estimated economicvalue) for dolphin mortality, the fishing-fleetsize, and the annual tuna harvest as functionsof a few key fishing parameters. The model alsoprovides a statistical method to determine theaccuracy of all needed parameter estimates. Thepaper then applies the model to the year 1996and the period from 1985 to 1987. The shadowprice measures the economic value to the UStuna fleet of dolphins lost in the harvestingof tuna. This value is essential whenattempting to evaluate the economic benefitsand costs to society of any action designed toreduce the mortality of dolphins in theharvesting of tuna in the eastern tropicalPacific Ocean. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 2004'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' After generally discussing models in ecology and economics that combine competition, optimization, and evolution, this article concentrates on models of intraspecific competition. It demonstrates the importance of diversity/inequalities within populations of species and other environments for the sustainability of their populations, given the occurrence of environmental change. This is demonstrated both for scramble (open-access) and contest competition. Implications are drawn for human populations and industrial organization. The possibility is raised that within-industry competition may not always exist between firms in all stages of the development of a new industry. Policy implications are considered. For example, it is argued that policies designed to encourage intense business competition and maximum economic efficiency have the drawback of eventually making industries highly vulnerable to exogenous economic changes. (JEL "L100", "J100", "Q150") Copyright 2004 Western Economic Association International.'] [" Science and technology (S&amp;T;) systems are interconnected with economic systems. After China began to make its economic system more market-oriented in 1979, reforms to its S&amp;T; system became urgent. China's major breakthrough in reforming its S&amp;T; system occurred in 1985. This paper provides data on China's changing S&amp;T; sector, outlines the processes of its reform and China's changing sources of funding for R&amp;D.; China's evolving technology market is given particular attention and some of its pitfalls are discussed."] [' In the last few years, transaction cost economics has become a popular theory within the construction research community. This approach has been singularly applied as a means to explain and predict phenomena concerning the construction firm, including its vertical boundaries. However, this is at a time when the chief proponents of transaction costs are urging researchers to take a pluralistic stance in relation to the theory of the firm. The aim of this paper is to develop a pluralistic approach to the vertical boundaries of the construction firm. In order to achieve this, an integrative framework is described, based on the development of the efficient boundaries problem and the capabilities approach to vertical integration. Specifically, this framework draws on the complementary strengths of transaction cost economics and the resource-based view. It is concluded that the potential relative merits of theoretical pluralism, in terms of the vertical boundaries of the construction firm, are sufficient grounds to motivate empirical testing of the predictions associated with the integrative framework of vertical integration presented.'] [' Economic theories of the family, of gender discrimination and deprivation within the family are examined in the context of three Kondh-dominated tribal villages, relying on a survey. Background information about the groups surveyed, the study area and nature of the survey are provided and the resource endowments of interviewed wives and their families and their economic status are outlined. Results from interviews of 106 wives, using a structured questionnaire, are reported and analysed. Factors of relevance for economic unitary and bargaining theories of the family are examined in this social context. Entitlements of females are ascertained. Using the survey results, socioeconomic influences on the status of wives and their deprivation within their families are examined and the entitlements of female and male children are compared and analysed. Because of cultural embedding, it is suggested that the relevance of economic theories of the family depend significantly on cultural contexts.'] [' The number of breeds of domesticated animals, especially livestock, have declined rapidly. The proximate causes and processes involved in loss of breeds are outlined. Also the path-dependent effect and Swanson\xe2\x80\x99s dominance-effect are discussed in relation to lock-in of breed selection. While these effects help to explain genetic erosion, they need to be supplemented to provide further explanation of biodiversity loss. In the respect, it is shown that the extension of markets and economic globalisation have contributed significantly to the loss of breeds. In addition, the decoupling of animal husbandry from surrounding natural environmental conditions, particularly industrialised intensive animal husbandry, is further eroding the stock of genetic resources. Recent trends in animal husbandry raise serious sustainability issues, apart from animal welfare concerns.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" Survey data for this paper were collected in a rural district in Kenya between December 2000 and January 2001. The main objective was to identify the factors determining female participation in household decision making. Our results suggest that bargaining models and resource theory cannot be applied in a society where customarily determined sex and social stratification systems place males higher than females and determine that only men make major decisions. Our results support the hypothesis that cultural theory is more significant than bargaining models or resource theories in determining women's participation in decision making in rural Kenya."] [' This article uses data for Nepal to test contemporary hypotheses about the remitting behaviour and associated motives of rural-to-urban migrants and to consider the likely impact of such remittances on rural development. Possibilities for inheritance, degree of family attachment, likelihood of eventual return to place of origin and family investment in the education of the migrants are found to be significant influences on levels of remittances by Nepalese migrants. However, in Nepal, remittances do not seem to result in long-term capital investment in rural areas and so may not promote long-term development of these areas.'] [' Since the mid-1970s wage inequality and skills differentials have increased sharply in OECD countries, and the following have been singled out by economists as possible major contributors: (a)economic globalisation processes; (b)skill-biased technological change; and (c) public policy or institutional change. Although these factors are most commonly considered as independent influences, we argue after critically outlining views about the two first mentioned factors, that strong interdependence exists between these influences. The article then examines potential policy responses to this growing inequality. Protectionism, increased provision of education and skill-enhancement, greater compensation via social services for the disadvantaged and negative income-tax systems are examined as possibilities. These policies are all found to have limited ability to address the problem. Ability to implement several of these policies may be severely restricted by international fiscal competitiveness. Furthermore, greater provision of educational services may add to the skill-based type of income inequality currently of concern.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The authors discuss the regulation of rural land use and compensation for property-rights restrictions, both of which appear to have become more commonplace in recent years but also more contested. The implications of contemporary theories in relation to this matter are examined, including: the applicability of new welfare economics; the relevance of the neoclassical theory of politics; and the implications of contemporary theories of social conflict resolution and communication. Examination of examples of Swiss and Australian regulation of the use of rural properties, and the ensuing conflicts, reveals that many decisions reflect a mixture of these elements. Rarely, if ever, are social decisions in this area made solely on the basis of welfare economics, for instance social cost - benefit analysis. Only some aspects of such decisions can be explained by the neoclassical theory of politics. Theories of social conflict resolution suggest why, and in what way, approaches of discourse and participation may resolve conflicts regarding regulation and compensation. These theories and their practical application seem to gain in importance as opposition to government decisions increases. The high degree of complexity of most conflicts concerning regulation and compensation cannot be tackled with narrow economic theories. Moreover, the Swiss and Australian examples show that approaches involving conflict resolution may favour environmental standards.'] [' Human resources are central to economic development and can be increased in value and productivity by investment in human beings, for example in their education and health. But for a considerable period in the past, economists stressed the importance of the accumulation of man-made physical capital for economic growth and development, to the neglect of human resource capital. Nevertheless, in the second half of the 20th century the importance of human resource capital (particularly education) for economic growth came to be recognised. Nevertheless, the implications of the formation of human resource capital for sustainable development were given virtually no in-depth attention but it is important to address this matter, as is done here. The nature and broad categories of capital are outlined and particular attention is given to human resource capital. While the formation of human resource capital can support sustainable development, it also poses a challenge since this "formation" draws on or transforms natural resource and environmental capital. Using a neo-Malthusian model, direct routes by which investment in human resource capital may promote sustainable development are outlined. Both improved education and health are likely, for example, to reduce population growth and this is likely to have favourable consequences for sustainable development. The provision of sufficient human capital for females is shown to be crucial in this respect. Nonetheless, it must also be recognised that difficulties (some of which are outlined) exist for sustainably developing human resources. It is argued that greater equality in the distribution of human resource capital, both within nations and globally, would make a significant contribution to sustainable development. The "basic needs" approach has considerable merit both from the point of view of justice and as a contributor to sustainable development.'] [' There is a widespread belief that the WTO has made virtually no concessions to environmentalists about their concerns arising from free trade and the process of globalization. There are concerns that these processes may undermine prospects for sustainable development. Following the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development held in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, the International Institute for Sustainable Development was established to advocate policies to support sustainable development within Canada and globally. In 1994, it proposed the Winnipeg Principles as a means for reconciling international trade and development so as to achieve sustainable development (IISD, 1994a,b). These seven principles are outlined in this article and assessed. Although the International Institute for Sustainable Development had hoped through these principles to influence the work programme of the Environment and Trade Committee of WTO, it seems to have little effect. Probably if these principles had been seriously considered by WTO, the serious social conflicts which emerged globally at the beginning of this century would have been avoided, and we would be in a better position to understand the complex links between trade, environment and sustainable development and adopt relevant policies. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2001 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd and ERP Environment'] ['Globalisation has become extremely intense since the earlier seventies. Given that the world economy is getting dose to a single market, a more efficient outcome via globalisation can be expected. However, globalisation may also have negative effects. We illustrate our findings through a simple cobweb model where we analyse different shape and slope of the aggregate supply curve. We show that when globalisation is too intensive, it leads to more instability on markets because of a reduction of behavioural diversity. The economic literature indicates that this diversity can be necessary for market stability as well as for macro-economic stability. We demonstrate that as a result of globalisation, the goals or motivations of economic agents may become more uniform (more profit-oriented) and generate market instability.'] [' Use of chemical inputs such as pesticides have increased agricultural production and productivity. However, negative externalities, too, have increased. The externalities include damage to the environment, agricultural land, fisheries, fauna and flora. Another major externality has been the unintentional destruction of beneficial predators of insects which has led to a virulence of many species of agricultural pests. Mortality and morbidity among agricultural workers, especially in developing countries from exposure to pesticides, are also common. The costs from these externalities are large and affect farmers\xe2\x80\x99 returns. However, despite these high costs, farmers continue to use pesticides and in increasing quantities. In this paper, we examine this paradox and show why farmers continue to use pesticides despite the increasing costs. We also emphasize \xe2\x80\x98lock-in\xe2\x80\x99 aspects of pesticide use.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This article describes and critically investigates core features of the safe minimum standard of conservation (SMS), as outlined by Ciriacy-Wantrup, which have been neglected, de-emphasized or poorly interpreted. Different ensuing interpretations and developments of SMS, aimed at giving it a theoretical basis and operationalizing it, are scrutinized. It is shown that the definition of features such as irreversibility, uncertainty, threshold and critical zone imply a socio-economic and institutional approach of SMS. Hence, endeavors to find a formal and positive foundation (game theory) or to identify SMS as an adjunct to cost-benefit analysis are unsuccessful. Rather, approaches assigning the definition of acceptable resource use to politics and society conform with SMS (e.g. by political norm setting or societal discourse). Furthermore, the paper discusses close normative relatives of SMS and identifies intragenerational distributional justice as a crucial variable for setting SMS. It is argued that SMS is a socio-economic and institutional approach; this should be the basis for further discussion and development of SMS.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper outlines the major social and ecological issues involved in the coevolution of social and ecological systems by initially reviewing relevant aspects of the recent literature relating to economic development and their implications for agricultural development. Coevolutionary qualitative-type models are presented. There has been a failure among advocates of structural adjustment policies (involving the extension of markets and economic globalisation) to take account of coevolutionary principles and to allow for historical differences in the evolution of communities and their varied circumstances. This lack of sensitivity has had unfortunate social and ecological consequences for some communities in, for example, the Russian Federation and for subsistence agriculturalists in some less developed countries. The evolution of globalised market systems involving industrial/commercial agriculture (largely dependent on inputs external to the farm) under the "patronage" of oligopolistic suppliers is seen to increasingly threaten the balance between social and ecological systems and as undermining the sustainability of both. Capitalistic processes of technological change, such as advances in biotechnology, play a major role in this evolution.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Considerable public funding is provided for research and development intended to improve the management and use of shared natural resources, such as water. In Australia, the Land and Water Research and Development Corporation (LWRRDC) and Environment Australia are significant providers of such funds. These providers tend to judge the value of R&amp;D; projects supported by them on the basis of whether or not significant technology transfer and adoption takes place. Researchers involved in these projects are expected to be the prime movers of such transfer. However, it seems that research funders have been guided by over-simplified models of processes of technology transfer and by false analogies with the transfer of industrial technology. There has been a failure to recognise that much of the new technology developed to improve the management of shared resources, such as water, affects the supply of social or collective commodities, a factor which materially alters the technology transfer process. Here, processes of transferring publicly funded intellectual knowledge are discussed and modelled, dynamic patterns of adoption of new technology are considered along with factors influencing adoption rates and barriers to adoption, particularly when the supply of social or collective commodities such as water, are involved. Some points from the analysis are illustrated by observations from a sample of LWRRDC-supported research projects.'] [' "This paper has two themes. First, diversity of relevant attributes driving the dynamics of socioeconomic systems, including industrial systems\'is often needed to increase their likelihood of transiting to a superior state. However, systems left to their own devices do not always evolve to states where they possess sufficient or optimal diversity for further evolution or growth to a superior state. Evolutionary market mechanisms can be of this nature. Structural adjustment policies and globalization seem to be adding to industrial and other types of uniformity. Hence, real danger exists that global industrial structures influenced by field effects will become "piled up" and reduce the likelihood of the global economic system evolving to a superior economic state. Furthermore, diversity is an important driving force in other growth processes, e.g., those adding to the stock of knowledge. Second industrial diversity of techniques and behaviors may be potentially Paretian valuable as a means of optimal adjustment to continual technological change and as a manifestation of specialization according to differences in individual abilities and in those of organizations. Insofar as attempts at benchmarking try to ensure uniform adoption of "best practice" in industry, they are likely to be doubly damaging because short-run potential Paretian benefits are forgone, and in stifling industrial diversity they may also undermine industrial diversity as a source of future economic growth. (JEL" D00, D89, O30, 014) Copyright 1999 Western Economic Association International.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Globalisation or the international integration of production and distribution has accelerated over the past two decades. Multinational enterprises (MNEs) or the transnational corporations (TNC) through foreign direct investment (FDI) have played a key role in the globalisation process. This paper reviews the role of MNE-FDI in the globalisation process both from the standpoint of trade theory and eclectic paradigms of FDI. The adequacy of the neoclassical inter-industry trade paradigm in explaining FDI flows is critically reviewed and the prognostication that MNE-FDI could be substituting trade to a host country is examined. Besides new trade theories based on monopolistic competition and intra-industry trade predict that MNE-FDI could be complementing trade to a host country. The controversy relating to MNE-FDI as causing trade substitution and complementation is resolved empirically in this paper using vector autoregression (VAR) econometrics. A VAR model is applied to Australian quarterly time-series data and innovation accounting and Granger causality tests are shed light on FDI-trade substitution and complementarity effects in the context of globalisation during the study period 1983(4)-i 996(3). The paper also comments on the national policy implications of MNE-FDI flows.'] [' There has been a recent tendency to extol tradeable or marketable pollution permits or similar permits to use or exploit some natural resources, such as fish. They are often seen as a very effective way of maintaining environmental conditions in a desired way. However, considerable care is required in adopting such systems. If they are inappropriately designed, the government will lose its flexibility to control the state of the environment. Permits which give their owners absolute rights to emit certain quantities of pollution in perpetuity or entitle holders to use or appropriate a particular quantity of a natural resource in perpetuity can cause particular problems for government. They can for example, involve expensive buy-back schemes. There are, however, ways around the problem. Furthermore, holders of rights may have to pay fees to cover enforcement costs. Where tradeable permits have a very long life, the question arises of how they should be allocated and whether those allocated these rights should be allowed to capture the rents. As discussed, changing ambient conditions may have to be allowed for in designing systems involving tradeable permits. \xc2\xa9 1998 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd and ERP Environment.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The Political Economy of Poverty, Equity and Growth: A Comparative Study. By Deepak Lal and H. Myint. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1996. Pp. xviii + 458. \xef\xbf\xbd45. ISBN 0 19 828863 8 Liberation Ecologies: Environment, Development, Social Movements. Edited by Richard Peet and Michael Watts. London and New York: Routledge, 1996. Pp.xii + 273. \xef\xbf\xbd45 and \xef\xbf\xbd14.99. ISBN 0 415 13361 0 and 13362 9 The Indonesian Economy since 1966: Southeast Asia's Emerging Giant. By Hal Hill. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1996. Pp.xv + 328. \xef\xbf\xbd50 and \xef\xbf\xbd17.95. ISBN 0 521 49512 1 and 40862 7. Accounting for Economic Development and Social Change. By Steven J. Keuning. Amsterdam: IOS Press, 1996. Pp.x + 233. \xef\xbf\xbd39. ISBN 90 5199 282 3 Social and Demographic Accounting. Edited by Geoffrey J.D. Hewings and Moss Madden. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1995. Pp.ix + 242. \xef\xbf\xbd30. ISBN 0 521 46572 9. Constraints on the Success of Structural Adjustment Programmes in Africa. Edited by Charles Harvey. London: Macmillan, 1996. Pp.xii + 248. \xef\xbf\xbd14.99. ISBN 0 333 642931 Regionalism and the Global Economy: The Case of Latin America and the Caribbean. Edited by Jan Joost Teunisson. The Hague: Forum on Debt and Development (FONDAD), 1995. Pp.163. US$20. ISBN 90 74208 06 1 Halting Degradation of Natural Resources: Is There a Role for Rural Communities? By Jean-Marie Baland and Jean-Philippe Platteau. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1996. Pp.xvi + 423. \xef\xbf\xbd45. ISBN 0 19 828921 9 China's Transitional Economy. Edited by Andrew G. Walder. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1996. Pp.xiii +220. \xef\xbf\xbd12.99. ISBN 0 19 829097 7 The Chinese Economy under Deng Xiaoping. Edited by Robert F. Ash and Y.Y. Kueh. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1996. Pp.viii + 288. \xef\xbf\xbd13.99. ISBN 0 19 8288 22 0 Population and Human Resources Development in the Sudan. Edited by O.S. Ertur and WJ. House. Ames, IA: Iowa State University Press, 1996. Pp.xiii + 329. $54.95. ISBN 0 8138 0699 2 What Makes Women Sick: Gender and the Political Economy of Health. By Lesley Doyal. Basingstoke: Macmillan, 1995. Pp.280. \xef\xbf\xbd37.50 and \xef\xbf\xbd11.99. ISBN 0 333 54204 5 and 54205 3"] [' A substantial portion of agricultural research and development (R&amp;D;) is publicly funded. It is therefore, important to give attention to the socially ideal allocation and administration of funds for agricultural R&amp;D; as is done here. The types of mechanisms used to allocate these public funds and administer their uses can be expected to influence the research results produced and ultimately the level of returns or benefits obtained from this expenditure. Different public mechanisms for allocating and administering agricultural research funding are discussed from this point of view, paying attention to economic considerations. The non-competitive allocation of block grants to institutions is compared with their competitive allocation. Possibilities for allocation to sections of institutions or to individuals are also considered. Centralized versus decentralized mechanisms for allocating and administering R&amp;D; within organizations are discussed. In designing appropriate mechanisms for the allocation and administration of the use of public agricultural R&amp;D; funds, account needs to be taken of such factors as transaction costs, knowledge limitations, the importance of learning by doing the accretion of institutional capital and the collective accumulation of knowledge and skills within organizations. These factors together with market failures, limit the scope for efficient use of competitive mechanisms in allocating funds for agricultural R&amp;D.;'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The paper reviews some important macroeconomic tensions resulting from the phenomenon of financial integration. These macroeconomic tensions are illustrated using Australian perspectives. The deregulation of the Australian financial markets has increased capital mobility and profoundly changed Australia\xe2\x80\x99s macroeconomic policy landscape over the past two decades. Financial deregulation has been propelled by the symbiotic processes of trade liberalisation, technological change and financial innovation. Although the measurement of the degree of capital mobility is shrouded in theoretical controversy, empirical evidence clearly reveals the trends in increased capital mobility and reduction of country risk premia, despite the rise in currency risk premia confounding the achievement of real interest parity. The phenomenon of financial integration has changed profoundly the policy targets and the mechanics underpirining the operation of policy transmission channels. Arguably, the recent emphasis of inflation targeting by reinforcing central bank independence is partly in deference to the short-term policy priorities of the international financial markets, thereby downgrading traditional policy concerns for unemployment reduction and long-term growth. The case for throwing sands on the wheels of international finance to ~~gain macroeconomic policy control appears to be counterproductive from an efficiency perspective. Nonetheless, there is a strong case for reviewing profound changes that have occurred in Australia\xe2\x80\x99s financial landscapes due to financial deregulation and international integration. These changes have enhanced the exposure of the financial system to systemic risk, information asymmetry, product convergence, institutional conglomeration and anti-competitive mergers. Financial integration whilst conferring the dynamic benefits of economies of scale and scope through competition has increased the vulnerability of the financial system to risks and macroeconomic instability. Therefore, the Wallis Committee (1996) appointed by the government is opportune and will examine any market distortions inherent in current regulatory structures and recommend the establishment of an internationally best practice regulatory framework to enable the Australian traders, investors to compete efficiently in the emergent borderless financial world. A robust and efficient financial system is vital for promoting growth and macroeconomic stability.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Rapid economic growth in the Asian-Pacific region provides economic hope for the region's low-income countries but raises international environmental dilemmas and could be unsustainable. The strong international and Asian political support for Asia's economic growth often makes little mention of the environmental issues involved. The natural resources water, air, and soils as well as Asia's conservation of living resources and maintenance of biodiversity are important environmental issues. Tourism development-especially ecotourism-could combine economic development and conservation, but as Asian examples illustrate, it has limitations. Other environmental influences include the rapid urbanisation of Asia and the likelihood of increased international and transboundary conflicts over use of natural resources as economic growth in Asia proceeds. Markets and market reforms are not sufficient to deal with Asia's economic problems. Institutional and other reforms also are needed. One must reject the view that economic growth neglecting the environment is acceptable even in low-income countries. Polluting and degrading the environment now and repairing it later is a dangerous policy to follow, particularly for larger Asian countries. In fact, a strong case exists for high-income countries to support the environmental conservation efforts of low-income countries. Copyright 1995 Western Economic Association International."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Recently, a number of specialty areas have developed dealing with the economics of natural systems, resources and the environment. These include natural resource economics, environmental economics, ecological economics and bioeconomics. As well, new government departments, research institutes and tertiary courses have evolved in these areas. This paper examines the evolution and characteristics of the new areas of specialisation, and their relationship with the more traditional discipline of agricultural economics. Environmental economics is viewed as a wider interdisciplinary field than natural resource economics, and ecological economics or bioeconomics is depicted as a branch of natural resource economics dealing with living resources.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["The bulk of analytic/empirical literature following the 'Green Revolution' contends that agricultural labour absorption in most, if not all, contemporary Asian countries is likely to follow the historical pattern of East Asia, especially Taiwan and Japan. This paper examines the relevance of East Asian experience for increased labour intensity in agriculture in Bangladesh in the post-'Green Revolution' period. Using labour coefficient data for a wide range of crops, the analysis is carried out on an annual basis as well as for crop seasons. Observed patterns are analysed and likely determinants are identified. The findings of the paper indicate limited relevance of the East Asian experience to Bangladesh, and highlight for South Asia the importance of examining seasonal differences in labour absorption."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Observations using Bangladeshi survey data tend to support Ahmed's (1981) and Asaduzzaman's (1979) hypothesis postulating an inverse relationship between farm size and intensity of adoption but not Jones' (1984) U-shaped relationship. However, since farm size alone is an inadequate predictor of HYV adoption, bivariate and multivariate techniques including discriminant analysis are used to identify influences on HYV adoption of such variables as subsistence pressure, tenancy, labour scarcity, education, availability of irrigation. Irrigation emerges as the key determinant of HYV adoption."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" For the first time, the model developed by Hayami and Herdt is applied to determine gains from modern varieties of rice in Bangladesh and the distribution of these gains between consumers and producers. The results suggest that consumers' surplus is much greater than it would have been had the high yielding crop varieties ( HYVs) not been introduced. By keeping the real price lower than it would have been otherwise, the modern varieties have tended to be income equalizing for urban consumers. The Hayami-Herdt partial model even suggests that, given the relatively inelastic demand for rice in Bangladesh, the real cash income of producers has risen slightly as a result of these new technologies. In reality, however, the impact of these changes on incomes of farmers and the distribution of income between those involved in production is more complex. It is suggested that if a less partial view is taken and if account is taken of lower cost of obtaining home-consumed produce, the increase in income may be greater. In any event, there are dangers in using such a partial model to predict the developmental consequences of technological changes affecting a staple crop, and attention needs also to be given to the possibility that the supply curve may not have the simple form and pivot in the way supposed by Hayami and Herdt. While the Hayami-Herdt model is simple to apply, it is best used as a first approximation or starting point rather than a final solution. It ignores a number of criteria that could be important in assessing new agricultural technologies, such as their impact on the variability of benefits to producers and consumers and their consequences for sustainability of production. Furthermore, the Hay-ami-Herdt model does not deal specifically with changes in factor shares in farm production. Nor does it consider the impact on income distribution of the ownership and control of critical input like irrigation and imperfection in the rural credit market. It is point<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Uses power functions and linear ratio functions to measure productivity progress attributable to learning as a time-dependent phenomenon in the startup phase of spinning and weaving processes in individual Bangladeshi jute mills. In so doing, it provides evidence on the importance of learning-by-doing in manufacturing in an LDC, namely in the production of heavy and light yarn and in the manufacture of sacking and hessian in Bangladesh. Copyright 1985 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd/University of Adelaide and Flinders University of South Australia'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper discusses from the wool industry's point of view its optimal level of expenditure on wool promotion and its optimal policy in promoting wool blends. The relevance of the Dorfman-Steiner and Nerlove-Waugh theorems relating to advertising is questioned. Mathematical conditions for the optimal allocation of promotional funds between pure wool and wool blends are outlined and game theory is used to consider whether the wool industry should leave the promotion of wool blends to makers of man-made fibres."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The study uses Theil's concept of certainty equivalence and bias to analyse the production decisions of the purely competitive firm when some of its inputs are controlled and others are non-controlled and subject to random influences. Conditions are outlined under which a surrogate procedure based upon the expected values of the non-controlled variables leads to certainty equivalence and others under which it leads to bias in the controlled variables. General factors which determine the direction of the bias are discussed. The managerial optimality of the surrogate procedure is investigated and also its welfare implications. The analysis is of particular relevance to agriculture because of the prevalence there of random noncontrolled inputs in production."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Stabilization of wool prices (which is partially achieved by the Wool Commission) may reduce the average annual net income (surplus) of growers and also of manufacturers of wool. The argument that the surplus of growers may be reduced is based upon Massell's extension of Oi's hypothesis. The possibility of falls in the surplus of manufacturers if wool prices are stabilized has a different basis. If wool prices are stabilized by buffer stocks, manufacturers find that their supplies are more variable than in the absence of controls. Consequently, they experience greater average annual cost if their marginal operating costs are increasing. Unless there are substantial revenue gains to processors, their surplus falls. The argument is also applicable to buffer stock schemes for other primary products."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']