 [' We extend the single-sector endogenous growth model to allow for a general demographic structure. The model shows that due to the \xe2\x80\x9cgenerational turnover term,\xe2\x80\x9d the equilibrium growth rate is less than that of a representative agent model. We find the local dynamics about the balanced growth path (bgp) to be unstable, implying that the bgp is the only viable equilibrium. Using numerical simulations, we analyze how economic consequences of a change in the population growth rate differ, depending on the source of the demographic change. In addition, we analyze the relationship between changes in the demographic structure and what we call the \xe2\x80\x9cnatural rate of wealth inequality\xe2\x80\x9d. Finally, we use our model to study how the demographic transition experienced by the United States has affected the economic growth rate and the degree of wealth inequality. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014'] ['This paper shows that for five small commodity-exporting countries that have adopted inflation targeting monetary policies, world commodity price aggregates have predictive power for their CPI and PPI inflation, particularly once possible structural breaks are taken into account. This conclusion is robust to using either disaggregated or aggregated commodity price indexes (although the former perform better), the currency denomination of the commodity prices, and to using mixed-frequency data. In pseudo out-of-sample forecasting, commodity indexes outperform the random walk and AR(1) processes, although the improvements over the latter are sometimes modest.'] [' We develop a neoclassical growth model having a realistic demographic structure. We identify the critical channel of impact to be the intertemporal consumption allocation decision through the \xe2\x80\x9cgenerational turnover term\xe2\x80\x9d. Expressing the aggregate dynamics as a generalization of the conventional neoclassical growth model provides important insights, enabling us to view in a unified way how alternative demographic structures impinge on the macrodynamic equilibrium. Using an approximation to the generational turnover term, we are able to characterize both the steady state and the local transitional dynamics. Through numerical simulations, we analyze the steady state as well as the transitional effects of structural and demographic changes. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014'] [' This paper reviews some recent research analyzing the growth-inequality relationship among heterogeneous agents. The primary source of heterogeneity is due to the initial endowments of physical capital, although extensions to include human capital and ability are also briefly considered. The models considered fall into three structural categories. The first is the one-sector endogenous growth model, which abstracts from distributional, as well as aggregate, dynamics. The second assumes neoclassical production and is characterized by transitional dynamics in both aggregates and inequality, enabling us to discuss both intratemporal and intertemporal tradeoffs. It introduces only one source of heterogeneity and cannot address issues pertaining to wealth and income mobility. To achieve that, it requires at least two sources of heterogeneity, such as capital and ability or skills, which are introduced in a third model. An important characteristic of the framework is that the effects of any changes on the measures of inequality are path-dependent, a characteristic that has important policy implications.'] ['This paper analyzes the effects of technological change on growth and inequality in a two-sector economy. The key mechanism is the evolution of the differential rates of return to human relative to physical capital as they respond to the changing technology. Productivity enhancement in the human capital sector increases the growth rate permanently, but in the final output sector, it has only a temporary effect. The effects on inequality depend on (i) the underlying source of inequality and (ii) the time horizon over which the productivity increase occurs. The model can generate growth-inequality relationships consistent with the empirical evidence.'] ['We develop a stochastic two-country general equilibrium model, where prices are determined under conditions of monopolistic competition to examine the macroeconomic and welfare effects of tariffs on the world economy under alternative nominal rigidities: producer-currency pricing (PCP) and local-currency pricing (LCP) where the exchange rate pass-through is absent. We find that the significance of export pricing for the effects of tariffs depends critically upon whether tariffs are anticipated or unanticipated. In the former case both PCP and LCP yield the same outcome as do perfectly flexible prices, although the mechanism whereby this is achieved is different. In the latter case, the effects of unanticipated permanent tariffs are highly sensitive to the pricing scheme adopted by exporters, leading to a wide range of conflicting outcomes, involving tradeoffs among key parameters.'] ['We examine the impact of a stylized pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) Social Security program in an economy of overlapping generations with equilibrium growth. We adopt realistic mortality and other demographic assumptions and allow for the presence or absence of life annuities. In all cases steady-state economies with PAYGO Social Security programs grow more slowly than those without. Also, we find that lifetime expected utilities are lower for existing and future households in steady-state economies with Social Security. We also report the effect of Social Security on the age profile of consumption and explore the effects of longer life expectancy, compensating Social Security program changes, and capital subsidies.'] ['We construct a unified overlapping-generations (OLG) framework of equilibrium growth that includes the Blanchard \xc3\xaf\xc2\xbf\xc2\xbdperpetual youth\xc3\xaf\xc2\xbf\xc2\xbd model, the Samuelson model, and the infinitely-lived representative agent growth model as limit specifications of a \xc3\xaf\xc2\xbf\xc2\xbdrealistic\xc3\xaf\xc2\xbf\xc2\xbd, two-parameter survivorship function. We analyze how demographic conditions affect the equilibrium growth and savings rates in an economy by computing equilibrium rates under different specifications of the survivorship function. Differences in population growth rates, life-expectancies, retirement durations, and the degree of concavity of the survivorship function are found to have significant impacts on equilibrium growth rates. The observed effects are consistent with some cross-country correlations between demographic conditions and growth rates. We also identify a potential \xc3\xaf\xc2\xbf\xc2\xbdMalthusian growth trap\xc3\xaf\xc2\xbf\xc2\xbd in economies where life expectancy is short, fertility rates are high, and households work most of their lives\xc3\xaf\xc2\xbf\xc2\xbdconditions often found in less developed economies.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" This paper employs a dynamic two-sector dependent-economy model to study the impact of foreign transfers on a country's aggregate economic performance, as well as its distributions of wealth, income, and welfare. The transfers may be allocated to debt reduction, or to the productivity enhancement of the traded or nontraded sector. The effect of the transfer on aggregate economic performance depends crucially upon: (i) the relative capital intensities of the two productive sectors, and (ii) the allocation of the transfers across the sectors. The consequences for wealth and income inequality depend not only upon these factors, but also upon (iii) the economy's access to the world financial market. Most of the analysis is conducted using simulations, where we characterize the dynamic evolution of both the aggregate economy and the inequality measures. Whether growth and inequality are positively or negatively associated over time depends upon the three factors noted above. Copyright 2012 Oxford University Press 2011 All rights reserved, Oxford University Press."] ['We develop a model in which public capital is both an engine of growth and a determinant of the distributions of wealth, income, and welfare. Government investment increases wealth inequality over time, regardless of its financing. The time path of income inequality is, however, highly sensitive to financing policies, and is often characterized by sharp intertemporal tradeoffs, with income inequality declining in the short run but increasing in the long run. Public investment generates a positive correlation between growth and income inequality along the transition path, but their short-run and long-run relationship depends critically on (i) how externalities impinge on allocation decisions, (ii) financing policies, and (iii) the time period of consideration. Finally, these policies also generate sharp trade-offs between average welfare and its distribution, with government investment improving average welfare, but also increasing its dispersion. Our results are obtained numerically but extensive sensitivity analysis confirms their robustness across key parameter values.'] ['We show that the importance of flexible labor supply in determining the impact of foreign transfers depends upon whether the transfers are untied or tied to productivity enhancement. This is because the transfer has both a wealth effect and a relative price effect, the relative importance of which depends upon its allocation. For an untied transfer, the relative price effect is weak, the wealth effect on leisure dominates, and the endogeneity of the labor supply is important. For a tied transfer, the increase in productivity raises the wage rate, thereby inducing an increase in aggregate labor supply and offsetting the increase in leisure due to the wealth effect. The overall response in leisure is small and is dominated by the relative price effect. In this case, given this small response, whether the aggregate labor is supplied elastically or is constrained to be fixed turns out to make little difference.'] ['This paper examines the significance of the time path of a given productivity increase on growth and inequality. Whereas the time path impacts only the transitional paths of aggregate quantities, it has both transitional and permanent consequences for wealth and income distribution. Hence, the growth\xe2\x80\x93inequality tradeoff generated by a given discrete increase in productivity contrasts sharply with that obtained when the same productivity increase occurs gradually. The latter can generate a Kuznets-type relationship between inequality and per-capita income. Our results suggest that economies with similar aggregate structural characteristics may have different outcomes for income and wealth inequality, depending on the nature of the productivity growth path.'] [" This paper discusses the impact of A. W. H. Phillips' seminal contributions to stabilization policy on subsequent developments in that field. We review the policy rules introduced by Phillips and show how these relate to the optimal rules emerging from linear\xe2\x80\x93quadratic optimization problems. The consequences of rational expectations for the design of optimal stabilization policy are discussed. These challenges arose from the role of \xe2\x80\x98forward-looking\xe2\x80\x99 variables, through issues such as the \xe2\x80\x98Lucas Critique\xe2\x80\x99 and the \xe2\x80\x98time consistency\xe2\x80\x99 of policy. The paper also discusses some of the contemporary aspects of stabilization policy, thereby highlighting the durability of Phillips' contributions."] ['Empirical evidence suggests that the flexibility of labor supply is closely related to the dynamic adjustment of the real exchange rate. This paper investigates this relationship in a two-sector dependent economy model. While, the long-run equilibrium real exchange rate is independent of the elasticity of labor supply, our analysis confirms that the nature of the labor supply can be a crucially important determinant of its short-run dynamics. The extent to which this is so depends to some degree on the source of the underlying structural change that is driving the dynamics of the real exchange rate. Numerical simulations confirm that this mechanism may help explain the larger short-run volatility and more rapid convergence typically associated with developing countries having less flexible labor markets.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper analyzes the impact of an increase in the price of oil on a small developing economy. We consider the extent to which the impacts of oil price shocks depend upon the economy's internal production structure and its access to the world financial market, and find that the long-run impact depends much more on the former than the latter. Two critical quantities summarizing the long-run effects are (i) the relative share of oil to labor in output and (ii) the elasticity of substitution in production. We supplement the formal analysis with numerical simulations, thereby enabling us to characterize the short-run dynamics. Overall, the simulations can replicate much of the empirical evidence used to characterize the effects of the recent oil price increases on the economy. They also highlight the sensitivity of the effect of the oil price to the elasticity of substitution."] ['A two-sector endogenous growth model linking human capital accumulation and income inequality is developed. Productivity increases in the final output sector have no effect on growth or inequality. Productivity increases in the human capital sector raise the growth rate, but their effect on income inequality depends on sectoral factor intensities. Income inequality and welfare inequality are driven by different factors and are likely to respond in opposite ways to productivity enhancement in the human capital sector. Finally, the gradual introduction of a productivity increase generates dynamics in both human capital inequality and income inequality, leading to permanent path-dependent effects.'] ['We examine how changes in tax policies affect the dynamics of the distributions of wealth and income in a Ramsey model in which agents differ in their initial capital endowment. The endogeneity of the labor supply plays a crucial role in determining inequality, as tax changes that affect hours of work will affect the distribution of wealth and income, reinforcing or offsetting the direct redistributive impact of taxes. Our results indicate that tax policies that reduce the labor supply are associated with lower output but also with a more equal distribution of after-tax income. We illustrate these effects by examining the impact of recent tax changes observed in the US and in European economies.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper focuses on the role of small models in macrodynamics. It discusses the insights that I believe these models offer and the extent to which they can address some of the complex issues, such as heterogeneity and interactions among agents that are receiving increasing attention in the literature. I comment on what I view to be the most productive role for numerical simulations, and finally offer some brief comments in defense of the state of modern macroeconomic theory in light of the criticism it has received as a result of the recent financial crisis.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper employs an endogenous growth model to analyze the growth and inequality relation for a small open economy where agents differ in their initial endowments of capital stock and international bond-holdings. We analyze the impacts of different structural shocks through their effects on agents' relative wealth and their labor supply decisions. Both theoretical analysis and numerical simulations demonstrate that openness - access to an international capital market - enriches the growth-inequality relations from those of the corresponding closed economy. Specifically, we show that the growth and distributional consequences of structural shocks depend crucially on whether the underlying heterogeneity originates with the initial endowment of domestic capital or foreign bonds."] ['This paper investigates the reliability of employing linearization to evaluate the dynamic adjustments to changes in productive government spending in a Ramsey growth model. If government expenditure is introduced as a flow and the dynamic adjustment is fast, linearization may yield a reasonably good approximation to the true dynamics, even for fairly large policy shocks. If government expenditure assumes the form of a stock, leading to more sluggish adjustment, linearization may yield misleading predictions. These errors occur at the beginning of the transition and weigh heavily in welfare calculations. The implications for temporary shocks and the speed of convergence are also considered.'] ['We investigate the determinants of foreign borrowing costs in a stochastically growing economy. We find that these increase with the debt-wealth ratio, depending also upon the volatilities of domestic and foreign origin, and the length of debt contract. In addition, the sensitivity of the short-term debt supply to the debt-wealth ratio exceeds that of long-term debt, and the effects of volatility on the borrowing premium, growth of wealth, and its volatility, depend on the relative size of a direct effect and a secondary portfolio-adjustment effect of the initial shock, as well as the length of the debt contract. Panel regressions suggest that the empirical evidence generally support the theoretical predictions.'] [' This paper examines linkages between international trade, environmental degradation, and economic growth in a dynamic North-South trade game. Using a neoclassical production function subject to an endogenously improving technology, North produces manufactured goods by employing labor, capital, and a natural resource that it imports from South. South extracts the resource using raw labor, in the process generating local pollution. We study optimal regional policies in the presence of local pollution and technology spillovers from North to South under both non-cooperative and cooperative modes of trade. Non-cooperative trade is inefficient due to stock externalities. Cooperative trade policies are efficient and yet do not benefit North. Both regions gain from improved productivity in North and faster knowledge diffusion to South regardless of the trading regime. Copyright \xef\xbf\xbd 2009 The Authors. Journal compilation \xef\xbf\xbd 2009 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper develops a two-sector model of a developing economy and examines the role of the informal sector in limiting the government's ability to increase tax revenues. A key feature is the introduction of auditing of the informal sector and degree of tax enforcement in that sector. We emphasize the interdependence between tax policy and enforcement in achieving a developing economy's fiscal objectives and show that by judicious policy choices the presence of the informal sector need not hinder its ability to raise tax revenues. We supplement the formal analysis with numerical simulations highlighting the contrasting intertemporal tradeoffs implied by higher tax rates and tax-enforcement levels."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We examine the evolution of the distributions of wealth and income in a Ramsey model in which agents differ in their initial capital endowment and where the labor supply is endogenous. The assumption that the utility function is homogeneous implies that the macroeconomic equilibrium is independent of the distribution of wealth and allows us to characterize fully income and wealth dynamics. We find that although the dynamics of the distribution of wealth are similar under fixed and flexible labor, those of the income distribution are not. In response to a structural change, income inequality may move in opposite ways depending on whether or not the labor supply is fixed.'] [" This paper studies optimal capital and labor income taxes when the benefits of public goods are age-dependent. Provided the government can impose a consumption tax, it can attain the first-best resource allocation. This involves the uniform taxation of the cohorts' labor income and a zero capital income tax. With no consumption tax and optimally chosen government spending, labor income should be taxed nonuniformly across cohorts and the capital income tax should be nonzero. Deviations of the public goods from their respective optima create distortions. These affect the labor supply decisions of both cohorts and capital accumulation, providing a further reason to tax (or subsidize) capital income. Copyright 2008 Blackwell Publishing, Inc.."] ['By specifying borrowing costs to increase with the debt to equity ratio we generate procyclical debt flows in response to terms of trade shocks, consistent with empirical evidence. Since procyclical capital flows attract unsustainably large capital inflows during favorable shocks and force countries to overadjust to adverse shocks, we obtain nonlinear adjustments, involving possible overshooting of the long-run debt level. By linking growth, procyclical debt, and terms of trade shocks, we add a distinctly dynamic component to the "Harberger-Laursen-Metzler effect". We also examine the welfare implications of the terms of trade shocks and find substantial impact of even intermediate sized shocks.'] ['While much empirical evidence suggests that the Cobb-Douglas production function may be a reasonable benchmark for aggregate analysis, we argue that the practice, particularly prevalent in contemporary growth theory, of adopting the Cobb-Douglas technology, may lead to misleading implications. Using two examples, we show that key implications of the models are highly sensitive to small deviations of the elasticity of substitution from unity. The first employs the standard neoclassical model and emphasizes the sensitivity of the speed of convergence to small changes in the elasticity of substitution. This in turn has profound consequences for wealth and income distribution. The second deals with foreign aid and highlights how the relative merits of "tied" versus "untied" aid are also very sensitive to the elasticity of substitution.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 Recent research supports the role of productive government spending as an important determinant of economic growth. Previous analyses have focused on the separate effects of public investment in infrastructure and on investment in education. This paper aims to introduce both types of public investment simultaneously, enabling the authors to address the trade-offs that resource constraints may impose on their choice. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 The authors employ a two-sector endogenous growth model, with physical and human capital. Physical capital is produced in the final output sector, using human capital, physical capital, and government spending on infrastructure. Human capital is produced in the education sector using human capital, physical capital, and government spending on public education. The introduction of productive government spending in both sectors yields an important structural difference from the traditional two-sector growth models in that the relative price of human to physical capital dynamics does not evolve independently of the quantity dynamics. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 The model yields both a long-run growth-maximizing and welfare-maximizing expenditure rate and allocation of expenditure on productive capital. The welfare-maximizing rate of expenditure is less than the growth-maximizing rate, with the opposite being the case with regard to their allocation. Moreover, the growth-maximizing value of the expenditure rate is independent of the composition of government spending, and vice versa. Because of the complexity of the model, the analysis of its dynamics requires the use of numerical simulations the specific shocks analyzed being productivity increases. During the transition, the growth rates of the two forms of capital approach their common equilibrium from opposite directions, this depending upon both the sector in which the shock occurs and the relative sectoral capital intensities. Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 These findings confirm that the form in which the gove rnment carries out its productive expenditures is important. The authors have retained the simpler, but widely employed, assumption that government expenditure influences private productivity as a flow. But given the importance of public investment suggests that extending this analysis to focus on public capital would be useful. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 Two-sector models of economic growth have proven to be a powerful tool for analyzing a wide range of issues in economic growth. The originality of this paper is to consider the relative impact of government spending on infrastructure and government spending on human capital and the trade-offs that they entail, both in the long run and over time.'] [' We develop an endogenous growth model with elastic labor supply, in which agents differ in their initial endowments of physical capital. In this context, the growth rate and the distribution of income are jointly determined. We then examine the distributional impact of different ways of financing an investment subsidy. Policies aimed at increasing the growth rate result in a more unequal distribution of pre-tax income, consistent with the positive correlation between income inequality and growth observed in the recent empirical literature. However, there is no conflict between efficiency and equity if inequality is measured in terms of the distribution of welfare. Copyright 2007 The Ohio State University.'] ['We construct a Blanchard-style overlapping generations model consisting of long-lived individuals who have uninsurable idiosyncratic risk resulting from uncertain retirement periods and medical costs in retirement. Without social insurance, such individuals must save for these eventualities. We examine the impact of pay-as-you-go social insurance policies (public pensions and medicare coverage) on individual and aggregate consumption, saving, and wealth levels as well as wealth distribution. We also derive expressions for optimal (Pareto improving) social insurance policies.'] ['We examine the effects of both consumption and production externalities on capital accumulation and economic performance under time non-separable preferences and a non-scale production technology. We show that a consumption externality in isolation has long-run distortionary effects if and only if labour is supplied elastically. With fixed labour supply, it has only transitional distortionary effects, though it may generate long-run distortions through its interaction with the production externality. Production externalities always generate long-run distortions, irrespective of labour supply. The optimal taxation to correct for the distortions is characterized. Further quantitative insights are obtained by supplementing the theoretical analysis with numerical simulations based on the calibration of a plausible macroeconomic growth model.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Government policies are frequently known to be temporary and thus their termination is perfectly anticipated. These foreseen policy changes must be consistent with equilibrium in both the goods market and asset markets. Potential problems arise because prices often play dual roles, both as final goods prices, and as asset prices, as components of rates of return. We show how the economy accommodates an anticipated policy change depends upon its production flexibility and its structure. With flexible investment, an anticipated reduction in government expenditure is fully accommodated by capital accumulation. When investment involves adjustment costs, the marginal utility of wealth and the price of capital both jump so as to maintain equality among rates of return. Goods market clearance is maintained by a combination of increases in consumption and investment. Extensions of the model to include inventories and to a small open economy are also considered and contrasted. Copyright Verein f\xc3\xbcr Socialpolitik and Blackwell Publishing Ltd. 2006.'] [" Non-excludable and excludable public inputs are introduced into an endogenous growth model. We derive the equilibrium growth rate and design the optimal tax and user-cost structure, emphasizing the role of congestion and its consequences for the government's budget. The latter comprises fee and tax revenues that are used to finance the public inputs, although they may generate insufficient revenue to do so entirely. We extend the model to allow for monopoly pricing of the user fee by the government. Most of the analysis is conducted for general production functions consistent with endogenous growth, but the CES technology is also considered. Copyright (c) The London School of Economics and Political Science 2006."] [' We develop an endogenous growth model with elastic labor supply, in which agents differ in their initial endowments of physical capital. In this framework, the growth rate and the distribution of income are jointly determined. The key equilibrating variable is the equilibrium labor supply. It determines the rate of return to capital, which in turn affects both the rate of capital accumulation and the distribution of income across agents. We then examine the impact of various structural shocks on growth and distribution. We find that faster growth is associated with a more unequal, contemporaneous distribution of income, consistent with recent empirical findings. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin/Heidelberg 2006'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Empirical evidence suggests (i) that the real exchange rates of developing economies show less persistence than do those of more advanced economies, and (ii) that the elasticity of substitution between capital and labor tends to increase from below unity for less developed economies to above one for more advanced economies. This paper shows how the introduction of sectoral adjustment costs in a two-sector model of a small open economy, together with CES production functions, provides a very natural explanation of this empirical regularity. Other aspects of the relationship between the technologies and the speed of convergence of the real exchange rate are also discussed. Copyright \xef\xbf\xbd 2006 The Authors; Journal compilation \xef\xbf\xbd 2006 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper examines how the tax burden in a developing economy should be distributed between capital income and labor income. We study a two-sector model, where the traditional sector is "informal" and consequently cannot be taxed by the government. In this set up, we find that the optimal (second-best) tax structure in order to raise a certain amount of revenue requires to tax capital income at least as much as labor income, and possibly more.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The paper develops a theoretical framework for understanding the mechanism through which foreign aid affects macroeconomic performance. The authors find that the long-run impact of an aid program and the nature of the transitional dynamics it generates depend crucially on (i) the elasticity of substitution in production, (ii) whether the aid flow is tied to investment activity or not, (iii) how the recipient government chooses to react to the flow of external assistance, and (iv) whether the aid program is permanent or temporary. Structural characteristics of the recipient are important in determining the extent to which external assistance can aid growth and welfare. Copyright Blackwell Publishing Ltd 2005..'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We introduce a renewable resource sector into an endogenous growth model of a small economy, deriving the transitional dynamic equilibrium. The model generates a long-run balanced growth path along which a resource sector of limited size can coexist with constant ongoing growth elsewhere. The key feature of the model is the allocation of labor between harvesting the resource and its use in the final output sector. We examine both the dynamic and long-run responses of the economy to various shocks pertaining to technological production conditions and resource sector parameters and show how they can generate sharply contrasting transitional adjustment paths.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Our objective is to investigate how alternative assumptions about preferences affect the process of economic growth. To do this, we analyze a neoclassical growth model under three alternative preference specifications: (i) time separable, (ii) catching up with the Joneses, and (iii) habit formation. Departing from the time separable specification leads to important differences in the dynamic structure, the adjustment path followed by key economic variables, the correlation patterns implied by the time series generated by the model, and the speed of convergence to the new steady state. In the catching up with the Joneses economy the differences arise from a consumption externality, while in the habit formation economy the difference arises from the fact that agents not only smooth consumption but also its rate of change.'] [' This paper analyzes the effects of fiscal policies in a non-scale growing economy with public and private capital. The equilibrium dynamics are characterized and we contrast the dynamic effects of government expenditure on investment and expenditure on consumption under four alternative modes of tax financing. Most of our attention focuses on the numerical simulations of a calibrated economy. The results emphasize the lengthy transition periods, which implies that policies have sizeable level effects, leading to substantial welfare effects, even though long-run growth rates are unaffected. The paper highlights the intertemporal dimensions of fiscal policy and the tradeoffs these involve for economic performance, especially growth and welfare.'] [' This paper undertakes a numerical analysis of the effects of changes in the tax rates on domestic and foreign capital income in a stochastically growing open economy under recursive preferences, in which the rate of time preference, &amp;epsiv;, and the coefficient of risk aversion, R, can be set independently. The responses of the equilibrium growth rate, its volatility, and welfare to changes in the tax changes considered are highly sensitive to the independent variations in both &amp;epsiv; and R. Consequently, the errors committed by using the conventional constant elasticity utility function, even for small violations of the compatibility condition (R&amp;equals; 1&amp;sol;&amp;epsiv;) can be significant, suggesting that this functional form should be employed with caution. Copyright 2004 Blackwell Publishing Inc..'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The paper corrects a subtle, but crucial, conceptual flaw in a solution procedure initially proposed in 1990 by Sen and Turnovsky to analyze anticipated regime changes in small open economies based on the intertemporal optimization of rational forward-looking agents. The problem is its failure to consider the intertemporal solvency of the economy consistently. The paper focuses on temporary shocks, although the procedure also applies to announced future permanent policy changes. Since the issue is generic and relevant to a large class of policy changes, it is important for the intertemporal solvency aspect to be incorporated consistently. The authors show that the seriousness of the error in the previous solution procedure depends upon the specific shock, and two contrasting examples are discussed. Copyright 2002 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] ['This paper examines the issue of speculative attacks on the exchange rate in an economy in which. following the attack the government allows the exchange rate to float for a limited period, before repegging it at a higher, sustainable, level. We highlight the tradeoffs between the length of the floating rate period and the timing of the speculative attack, and the implied consequences for the time paths of the exchange rate and consumption. By letting the exchange rate float for an appropriate period, the exchange rate crisis can be delayed for a maximum period of time, although delaying the crisis as long as possible is non-optimal. In some respects our results are qualitatively similar to earlier results based on non-optimizing models, although employing a rational intertemporal optimizing framework substantially enhances our understanding of the determinants of the crises.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper characterises the effects of reserve requirements on financial loans in the presence of moral hazard on the lender side and sovereign risk on the borrower side. The impacts of such reserve requirements on the equilibrium default risk and borrowing are analysed and their welfare implications discussed. More generous bailouts, financed by the high-income block, encourage borrowing and increase the probability of default. The optimal reserve requirements for both lender and borrower are characterised. The introduction of a reserve requirement in either country reduces the default risk and raises the welfare of both the high-income and the emerging-market economies. Copyright Royal Economic Society 2002'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper explores the relationship between aggregate and relative congestion, returns to scale and economic growth. Aggregate congestion reduces the effective productivity of capital: relative congestion reduces the effective productivity of labour. Both forms of congestion adversely affect the equilibrium growth rate, although their relative effects depend upon aggregate returns to scale. The two forms of congestion have contrasting effects on the transitional dynamics. Relative congestion retards the rate of adjustment: aggregate congestion accelerates it. The externalities generated by congestion and non-optimal expenditure can be fully corrected, both during the transition and in steady state, by a time-invariant income tax. Copyright 2000 by The London School of Economics and Political Science'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Financial market liberalizations are an integral part of economic development. While initial booms in investment and output are commonly seen as signs of successful deregulation, they often reverse at a later stage as international capital flows turn negative and economic growth slows markedly. Such reversals of fortunes have commonly been attributed to incorrect policies that supposedly followed the initial, appropriate measures. It is unclear, however, if capital flow reversals are actually the result of policy reversals, or if they occur as part of the normal transition when financial liberalization is accompanied by a single suboptimal policy. The later hypothesis has not been explored in the theoretical literature Copyright Verein f\xc3\xbc Socialpolitik and Blackwell Publishers Ltd 2000.'] ['Endogenous labor supply is introduced into a stochastic growth model. Money is superneutral, and the real part of the equilibrium can be characterized by two nonlinear trade-off loci between the time devoted to leisure and the mean growth rate that ensure the following: (i) equality among the risk-adjusted rates of return and (ii) equilibrium in the output market. The balanced growth equilibrium is characterized analytically and policy implications derived. Extensive numerical simulations are also conducted. These assess the effects of risk on growth and the impact of fiscal policy on both the mean growth rate and its volatility. Implications for optimal monetary policy are also addressed. Copyright 2000 by Blackwell Publishing Inc.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Growth models that incorporate nonrivalry and/or externalities imply that the size of an economy may influence its long-run growth rate. Such implied scale effects run counter to empirical evidence. This paper develops a general growth model to examine conditions under which balanced growth is void of scale effects. The model is general enough to replicate well known exogenous, as well as endogenous, (non-) scale models. The authors derive a series of propositions that show that these conditions for nonscale balanced growth can be grouped into three categories that pertain to (1) functional forms, (2) the production structure, and (3) returns to scale.'] [' Much of the convergence debate has focused solely on output. Recent empirical evidence suggests that crucial inputs, such as technology and capital, may exhibit markedly distinct convergence patterns. We examine the convergence characteristics of a two-sector nonscale model of growth that features population growth and endogenous technology. The model replicates key economic ratios and speeds of convergence with relative ease. Most important, however, is that capital and technology differ strikingly in their convergence paths and speeds. The nonconstancy of the convergence rates and the nonproportionality of the endogenous variables during transition suggests further refinements for the empirical tests of convergence. Copyright 1999 by Kluwer Academic Publishers'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper determines conditions under which a reduction in the role of government, either through a tax cut alone, or together with accompanying expenditure cuts, will improve long-run government fiscal balance. For a ceteris paribus cut in the income tax rate to improve long-run government balance, the intertemporal elasticity of substitution must exceed unity. A tax cut balanced by an expenditure cut is likely to improve the long-run balance even if it does not improve the short-run balance. The relationship between improving the long-run fiscal balance and economic welfare is also analyzed.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' New growth models exhibit "scale effects," meaning that variations in the levels of key variables exert permanent influences on growth rates. Such predictions run counter to recent empirical evidence. This paper extends a general non-scale model to the open economy. With complete capital markets, only output and capital, but not consumption, retain their non-scale structure. Introducing capital market imperfections, the model is again fully non-scale. Debt subsidies are analyzed and shown to provide capital flow reversals consistent with the recent experience in East Asia. Copyright 1999 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] [' The effects of open-market operations and long- versus short-bond financing on risk in financial markets in a stochastically growing economy are studied. An increase in short bonds, resulting from exchanging long bonds, increases the riskiness of long bonds and raises their real rate of return. An open-market purchase of either long or short bonds raises the price of long bonds and lowers their risk and real return. However, debt policy adjustments that affect the real return to long bonds do not affect real investment or growth, so that overall the welfare consequences of debt policy are neutral. Copyright 1998 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] [" Optimal tax and monetary policies in a stochastic monetary growth model are investigated. The authors' findings are of three general types. First, both capital income taxes and monetary growth are shown to influence the economy through effective risk-adjusted measures, expressed as a linear function of their respective means and variances. Second, two stochastic neutrality results relating to money and bonds, the two nominal assets in the economy, are identified. Third, optimal policy rules relating to taxes, bond finance, and money creation are characterized. An essential component of optimal financial policy is a risk-adjusted balanced budget. Copyright 1998 by The London School of Economics and Political Science"] ['How do capital income taxes affect household portfolio choice and growth? We" approach this question within the context of a stochastic model of a small open economy in" which taxes on income from domestic capital (equity) and foreign bonds affect household" portfolio choice, welfare and the growth rate of the economy. The theoretical and numerical" analysis demonstrates the important role that risk plays in determining the mean and variability" of growth as well as the conditions under which a higher tax rate can be welfare improving. To" shed more light on the complex theoretical interaction between taxes and risk-taking we estimate" a reduced-form multinomial probit model of household portfolio choice using the method of" simulated moments. The empirical evidence is in stark contrast to the conventional wisdom " we find that higher taxes make it less likely that the household will hold risky assets."<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper analyzes the impact of public investment on the dynamics of private capital formation in an intertemporal optimizing market-clearing framework. The key feature characterizing the analysis is that the public good is treated as a durable capital good subject to congestion. The authors show how, in the presence of congestion, the effect of government investment on private capital formation involves a trade-off between the degree of substitution between private and public capital in production and the degree of congestion. Both lump-sum and distortionary tax financing are considered, with this trade-off being tightened in the latter case.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' A growth model of a developing economy facing an upward-sloping supply curve of debt is analyzed. Equilibrium is characterized by transitional dynamics in which consumption, capital, and debt converge to a common growth rate. The adjustment is through the debt-capital ratio, which drives the borrowing rate to a level at which growth rates are equalized. The economy is subject to two externalities: a production externality associated with government expenditure, and a financial externality associated with the upward-sloping supply of debt. The tax structure that enables the decentralized economy to attain the first-best equilibrium is characterized. Copyright 1997 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd'] ['A dynamic analysis of the international transmission of government expenditure shocks under alternative methods of finance is presented. The benchmark case of lump-sum tax financing yields an expansion in both the short-run and the long-run levels of domestic activity, while crowding out domestic consumption. Activity abroad declines in the short run and, while it is stimulated during the transition, long-run activity abroad also declines. With capital income tax financing, the accompanying distortion outweighs the direct expenditure effects, so that all these responses are reversed. Financing with a tax on labor produces ambiguous responses. The welfare implications of these policies are also examined.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The equilibrium growth path for this economy depends upon the relative sectoral capital intensities of the two production functions. If the nontraded sector is relatively intensive in traded capital, both the relative price of nontraded output and the price of installed capital always remain at their respective steady-state levels. Traded capital and aggregate wealth are always on their respective steady-state growth paths. Nontraded capital undergoes transitional dynamics, ultimately converging to the growth rate of the traded capital and an equilibrium ratio of traded to nontraded capital. If the sectoral intensities are reversed, both asset prices will follow transitional adjustment paths. Copyright 1996 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] [' This paper develops a one-sector endogenous growth model in which investment incurs convex adjustment costs. Conditions for the existence of a balanced growth path are discussed. Fiscal issues are analyzed in a circumstance in which the government uses tax revenues to finance public expenditures that impact on both the productivity of the existing capital stock and adjustments costs. The effect of these costs on the equilibrium growth rate and on the effectiveness of fiscal policy is discussed. Optimal fiscal policy is derived and the role of adjustment costs and congestion in determining the trade-off between different taxes is considered. Copyright 1996 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper tries to distinguish between those features of macroeconomic dynamics which will stand the test of time and which will not. It reviews the rational expectations and the representative agent models. It concludes that more attention should be paid to nonlinear dynamics and uncertainty than has hitherto been paid by macroeconomists.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In this paper we use the insights of the stochastic general equilibrium growth model to help understand the effects of risk on the real, risk adjusted return to capital, capital flows, exchange rate policy, and economic growth in two Pacific Basin economies, Mexico and Indonesia, over the period 1973-95.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Dynamic versions of the dependent-economy model have been criticized for arbitrarily assuming that capital is either tradable or nontradable, and for choosing either the traded or nontraded sector to be capital intensive. Our model incorporates both types of capital and shows that the relative sectoral intensity of nontraded capital determines the dynamic adjustment of the relative price of nontradables. When the traded sector is intensive in nontraded capital, the saddlepath is flat. When the nontraded sector is intensive in nontraded capital, the saddlepath is negatively sloped. The relative sectoral intensity of traded capital primarily affects current-account dynamics. Copyright 1994 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper analyzes the impact of differential tariffs on consumption and investment in a specific factors model of a small open economy in which capital is accumulated over time. Particular attention is devoted to the welfare aspects, highlighting the cost of the intertemporal distortions produced by protective trade policies. Several specific welfare propositions are obtained. First, tariff protection is shown to create short-run benefits but long-run costs in welfare. Second, the second-best policy for the two tariffs is characterized. Finally, several propositions summarizing the implications of the authors' analysis for tariff reform are derived. Copyright 1993 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association."] ['This paper investigates the impact of change in the terms of trade on the economic performance of a small economy. Both the effects of unanticipated shocks and changes in the mean and variance of the probability distribution generating these disturbances are discussed. In all cases, the key element determining the response of the economy is the effect on the rate of growth of real wealth, to which all other real quantities are directly tied in equilibrium. Conditions for the Harberger-Laursen-Metzler effect to hold are discussed. The impact of these changes on economic welfare, as measured by expected discounted utility of the representative agent is also addressed.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' An integrated stochastic equilibrium growth model is constructed and directed to various questions pertaining to monetary and tax policy. Two main issues addressed include (1) the tradeoff between the rate of capital accumulation and inflation in a stochastic environment; and (2) economic welfare and optimal policy making. The key result is that policy variables impact on welfare through their effect on the after-tax nominal interest rate, which therefore serves as an intermediate policy target. The welfare maximizing interest rate target is derived and the author discusses its attainment through appropriate monetary and tax policies. Tradeoffs between policy instruments are also addressed. Copyright 1993 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] [' This paper derives criteria for evaluating the impact of an increase in government expenditure on both the time path of instantaneous utility and overall welfare, under alternative forms of tax financing. These consist of three factors. The first is the direct crowding-out effect, which reflects the utility differential between the government expenditure being undertaken and the private consumption it is displacing. The second describes the intertemporal trade-off between the effect on the short-run rate of capital accumulation and the resulting change in the the long-run capital stock. The final term is due to the distortion arising from the pre-existence of a tax on wage income. Copyright 1992 by The London School of Economics and Political Science.'] [' The effects of government expenditure on the dynamic evolution of the term structure of interest rates are analyzed in an infinite horizon intertemporal optimizing macroeconomic framework. Three types of disturbances are discussed: unanticipated and anticipated permanent increases, and a temporary decrease. In the case of anticipated future and temporary disturbances, the lead time in the former, and the duration in the latter, are critical determinants of the dynamics. For a very temporary shock, the short-term and long-term rates will diverge in the short run. While most of the analysis focuses on infinitesimally short, and infinitely long bonds, the dynamics of the entire yield curve are also considered. Copyright 1992 by Ohio State University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The international transmission of tax shocks are analyzed in a two-country infinite-horizon representative agent framework. The viability of the tax regimes, arising from the arbitrage conditions characterizing equilibrium in a perfect world capital market, is emphasized. Conditions for both short-run and long-run viability are derived, and the two polar regimes of source-based and residence-based taxation are discussed. In general, the former is found more likely to satisfy the viability conditions than the latter. With equity financing, the long-run viability of residence-based taxation is likely to require the harmonization of tax and/or dividend policy. The main features of the dynamic adjustment paths following a tax increase are characterized. Copyright 1992 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper analyzes the impact of a tariff on sectoral adjustments in an economy which produces two traded consumption goods, one of which is exported, and a non-traded investment good. The importance of sectoral capital intensities is emphasized. In particular, the qualitative dynamic adjustment depends upon the relative capital intensities of the import-competing consumption good sector and the non-traded investment good sector. Sectoral labor allocation effects are analyzed and the long-run effect on aggregate capital accumulation is shown to depend upon the relative capital intensities of the import and export sectors. Temporary as well as permanent tariffs are discussed.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper analyzes the effects of changes in government expenditure on both a domestically produced and an imported good in an open economy based on intertemporal optimizing behavior. The dynamic adjustment is characterized in detail and the critical role played by the accumulating capital stock is highlighted. The evolution of the current account is seen to mirror that of capital. The welfare of such policies is also assessed in terms of the intertemporal utility of the representative agent. Both permanent and temporary policy changes are considered, with the latter being shown to have a permanent effect on the economy. Copyright 1991 by Royal Economic Society.'] [' The paper begins by emphasizing the evolving use of increasingly sophisticated analytical methods in the discipline and lamenting the increased specialization of the profession. Several aspects of economics as it has been practiced recently are found to be troubling. These include the dominance of fads, certain methodological procedures, and ideological disputes. The paper then focuses more on the future, arguing that the present treatment of uncertainty and dynamics is primitive. It suggests that the methods of nonlinear dynamics are promising. It also argues that the developments have been largely incremental and questions whether quantum changes in the methods of economics are likely to occur over the foreseeable future. Copyright 1991 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper contrasts the effects of a permanent and temporary investment tax credit in an open economy. In both cases an ITC will initially stimulate investment, while reducing employment and output, and generating a current account deficit. If the ITC is permanent, the accumulation of capital leads to a higher equilibrium capital stock, higher employment and output, and a reduction in the economy's stock of net credit. If the ITC is temporary, after its removal, the economy eventually moves to a new steady-state equilibrium having a lower permanent capital stock and employment, together with a higher stock of net credit.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['An optimizing growth model for a highly indebted small open economy is constructed and analyzed. An important innovation in the model is the incorporation of sovereign risk through the specification of an upward-sloping foreign debt supply function. The model is used to examine the interaction between external debt and growth in response to various policies and exogenous disturbances. It is shown that structural policies intended to reduce the fiscal deficit or increase productivity can lead to trade-offs in their effect on capital accumulation and the stock of debt.'] ['This paper analyzes the effects of both a permanent and a temporary deterioration In the terms of trade on a small open economy. The model, based on intertemporal optimization, emphasizes the labor-leisure choice and the role of capital accumulation There are two main conclusions to be drawn from the analysis. The first 1s that in all cases the transitional dynamics depends critically upon the long-run response of the capital stock to the deterioration m the terms of trade. This has been shown to consist of a substitution effect, which is negative, together with an income effect, which is positive. Secondly, since the steady state equilibrium depends upon the initla1 conditions of the economy, a temporary shock, by altering these initial conditions for some later date when the shock ceases, leads to a permanent effect on the economy. In the case where the substitution effect dominates, a deterioration in the terms of trade leads to a short-run reduction in investment and a short-run current account surplus, contrary to the Laursen-Metzler effect. However, when the long-run income effect dominates, the deterioration m the terms of trade leads to a short-run investment boom, accompanied by a short-term current account deficit. The Laursen-Metzler effect prevails, although it is driven by investment, rather than by savings behavior.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper analyzes the effects of monetary and fiscal policy shocks on the term structure of interest rates. Temporary versus permanent, unanticipated versus anticipated policy disturbances and the responses of long versus short, and real versus nominal rates are contrasted. The main results are summarized in a series of propositions. Among them, the finding that an unanticipated permanent fiscal expansion impacts more on long-term rates may help explain their observed excessive volatility. The effects of structural changes on the relative variances are also discussed, with the effect that operates through the impact on private speculative behavior being emphasized. Copyright 1989 by Ohio State University Press.'] ["This paper analyzes the choice of monetary instrument in a stochastic two country setting where each country's set of monetary policy instruments includes both the money supply and the interest rate. It shows how the optimal choice of instrument is determined In two stages. First, for each pair, the minimum welfare coat for each economy is determined This defines a par of payoff matrices and the second stage involves determining the Nash equilibrium for this bimatrix game. In our illustrative example for the alternative shocks considered, a dominant Nash equilibrium is always obtained.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' This paper analyzes the effects of tariffs in an intertemporal optimizing framework emphasizing the role of capital accumulation. Unanticipated permanent, anticipated temporary, and anticipated permanent increases in the tariff rate are considered. In all cases, the introduction of a tariff is contractionary both in the short run and in the long run. The declining capital stock is accompanied by a current account surplus. The response of savings is unclear. The model has the property that the steady state depends upon the initial stocks of assets. As a consequence of this, a temporary tariff has a permanent (contractionary) effect on the economy. Copyright 1989 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] ['This paper analyzes the gains from fiscal cooperation within the context of the standard two commodity real trade model. It shows how the adjustment in terms of trade is the critical factor in determining the effects of moving from a noncooperative equilibrium. In general, a noncooperative equilibrium leads to an overexpansion of government expenditure on the export good and an underexpansion on the import good, relative to a cooperative equilibrium. The specific example of a logarithmic economy is also considered. The paper discusses further the welfare effects resulting from the formation of a coalition among two countries.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper develops strategic monetary policies using a standard two-country macro model under flexible exchange rates. The equilibria considered include feedback Nash and feedback Stackelberg, both of which are compared to the Pareto optimal cooperative equilibrium. The optimal policies are obtained as feedback rules in which real money supplies are adjusted to movements in the real exchange rate. The properties of these policies and their welfare implications are analyzed using numerical simulations. The contrast in the present results with those obtained previously for a short-run horizon suggest the importance of both intertemporal and intratemporal tradeoffs in the d etermination of optimal strategic policies. Copyright 1988 by American Economic Association.'] [" This paper analyzes the effects of an increase in the monetary growth ra te within a dynamic optimizing macroeconomic model. Both the short-ru n and long-run effects, and therefore the adjustments along the trans itional path, depend critically upon the tax structure and the firm's corresponding optimal financial decisions. With all bond financing, the effects depend upon the extent to which interest payments are tax deductible for corporations. If this is sufficiently high, the effec ts of an increase in the monetary growth rate are generally expansion ary. With low interest deductibility, or if the tax structure induces equity financing, the effects are generally contractionary. Copyright 1987 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association."] [' This paper demonstrates that if current shocks are observed instantaneously, output can be stabilized perfectly for completely general supply disturbances, using simple monetary rules based only on: (1) the current shock; (2) the previous forecast of the current shock; and (3) the forecast for just one period ahead. The optimal rule can be expressed in an infinite number of ways and various alternatives are considered. With optimal wage indexation, the monetary rule is even simpler. If current shocks are not observed instantaneously, but are inferred from other signals, the optimal rules are of the same form, with the current perceived disturbance replacing the actual. Copyright 1987 by Royal Economic Society.'] [' The interdependence between the optimal degree of wage indexation and optimal monetary policy is analyzed for a small open economy under a variety of assumptions regarding: (1) relative information available to private agents and the stabilization authority; and (2 ) the perceived nature of the disturbances impinging on the economy. The distinctions between: (1) unanticipated and anticipated disturbances, and (2) permanent and transitory disturbances, are emphasized. The extent to which stabilization is achieved is shown to depend upon the nature of the disturbances and the available information. The policy redundancy issue is emphasized, implying that optimal rules can frequently be specified in many equivalent ways. Copyright 1987 by Ohio State University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper emphasizes how the choice of the optimal monetary growth rate in a small open economy under perfect capital mobility depends upon the accommodating policy chosen to maintain the overall budget constraint in the economy. When this occurs through lump sum taxation, the optimal monetary growth rate is shown to be the "distorted" Friedman monetary rule. If the adjustment occurs through the income tax rate, the optimal monetary growth rate involves a Phelps-type tradeoff between the income tax rate and the inflation tax rate. The framework is suited for analyzing optimal macroeconomic policy in general and the latter part of the paper considers an optimal monetary-fiscal package.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper analyzes strategic monetary policies using a standard two country stochastic macro model. Three noncooperative equilibria, namely Cournot, Stackelberg, and Consistent Conjectural Variations, are considered.The Pareto Optimal equilibrium, where aggregate joint costs are minimizedis also considered, and all strategic equilibria are compared to the perfectly fixed and flexible exchange rate regimes. The main conclusions obtained are:(i) Demand shocks are much less problematical than supply disturbances from the viewpoint of macro stabilization; (ii) the gains from cooperation are typically small; (iii) the strategic equilibria all show substantial margins of superiority over the fixed and flexible regimes.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper analyzes the effects of both anticipated and unanticipated monetary and fiscal disturbances, on the dynamic behavior of a monetary model of a small open economy. It focuses on the adjustment of the short-term and long-term interest rates and the divergence of their transitional paths, particularly in anticipation of these disturbances. The analysis demonstrates how anticipation of a future policy change can generate perverse short-run behavior. The essential reason for the divergence between the short and long rates is that the latter is dominated by long-term expectations, while the former is primarily determined by current influences.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper analyzes the determination of the optimal tariff under the assumption of Consistent Conjectural Variations (CCV). A general characterization of the CCV equilibrium is given. We show that (i) there are, in general, a multiplicity of such equilibria, and (ii) under certain restrictions, the Cournot equilibrium, which is based on the assumption of no retaliation can also be a CCV equilibrium. By contrast, free trade is never a CCV equilibrium. Finally the CCV equilibrium is solved explicitly in a simple example.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper analyzes the effects of anticipated and unanticipated domestic monetary and fiscal expansions on both the domestic and foreign economies. The analysis is based on symmetric behavior, which is not only not an unreasonable first approximation, but also offers significant analytical advantages. Specifically, it enables the dynamics of the system to be decoupled into (a) averages and (b) differences of relevant variables. Not only does this render the analysis tractable, but it also helps provide economic insight. One striking aspect is that the differences, but not the averages, respond to announcements. The consequences of this for the dynamic adjustments of the two economies to the various disturbances are discussed at length.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper analyzes the effects of three alternative rules on the long-run distributions of both the spot and futures prices ina single commodity market, in which the key behavioral relationships are derived from the optimizing behavior of producers and speculators.The rules considered include: (i) leaning against the wind in the spot market; (ii) utility maximizing speculative behavior by the stabilization authority in the futures market; (iii) leaning against the wind in the futures market. Since the underlying model is sufficiently complex to preclude analytical solutions, the analysis makes extensive use of simulation methods. As a general proposition we find that intervention in the futures market is not as effective in stabilizing either the spot price of the futures price as is intervention in the spot market. Indeed, Rule (iii), while stabilizing the futures price may actually destabilize the spot price. Furthermore, the analogous type of rule undertaken in the spot market will always stabilize the futures price to a greater degree than it does the spot price. The welfare implications of these rules are also discussed. Our analysis shows how these can generate rather different distributions of welfare gains, including the overall benefits.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper analyzes the effects of various disturbances of domestic and foreign origin in a small open economy under imperfect capital mobility in which the behavioral relationships are derived from optimization by the private sector. In this model the domestic economy jumps instantaneously to its new equilibrium following a change in either the domestic monetary growth rate or domestic fiscal policy. In response to a disturbance in either the foreign interest rate or inflation rate,the economy undergoes an initial partial jump towards its new equilibrium,which it there after approaches gradually. The implications of these results for exchange rate adjustment and the insulation properties of flexible exchange rates are discussed.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper analyzes two simple wage rules that keep employment constant when there are shocks to the prices of imported materials. One rule ties nominal wages to the GNP deflator rather than the consumer price index. The second rule, followed by Japan after the second oil price shock, ties the real wage to real GNP. The paper shows the effects on output, real income, and other macroeconomic variables of choosing either rule in place of the real wage stability provided by conventional wage indexation.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper considers two alternative approaches to stabilizing an economy with firm-specific productivity disturbances. The first uses wage contracts tying wages in each firm to these disturbances as well as the price level. The second uses a tax on firms which modifies their supply behavior together with a simple waqe indexation rule tying wages to prices alone. Both these schemes are viable as long as the firm-specific disturbance is known to all agents. If the firm alone observes the productivity disturbance, under either scheme it has an incentive to misrepresent current conditions. However, a combination of these two schemes is both welfare maximizing and incentive compatible.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper develops a stochastic equilibrium model of an open economy incorporating speculation in the forward exchange market. The model is used to examine two issues. The first is the role of speculation in stabilizing the economy against stochastic disturbances. Much risk averse speculation stabilizes domestic income against disturbances in the domestic bond market and forward exchange marketbut exacerbates the effect of foreign disturbances. Speculation may dampen or augment the effect of money market and output supply disturbances depending upon the share of foreign bonds in total wealthand the interest elasticity of bond demand. The second issue that the model addresses is the role of the forward market in stabilization policy. Forward market intervention (or its equivalent in this model,sterilized spot market intervention) does not provide monetary authorities additional leverage in stabilizing income beyond unsterilized spot market intervention. Intervention rules based on reactions to both the forward and the spot exchange rates, however, can outper-form intervention policies responding to the spot rate alone,regardless of the market in which intervention occurs.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper analyzes exchange market intervention in a stochastic model of a small open economy. The distinction is made between disturbances which are unanticipated and anticipated on the one hand, and those that are perceived as being transitory or permanent, on the other. The paper demonstrates how the appropriate form of exchange market intervention is sensitive to these aspects of the disturbances. Of particular interest is the case of an unanticipated permanent disturbance, when output may be stabilized perfectly about its frictionless level by the use of a very simple class of intervention rules.The optimal rules in other cases are also discussed.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["The analysis of this paper stresses the interdependence between wage indexation on the one hand, and exchange market intervention on the other,as tools of'macroeconomic stabilization policy in a small open economy subject to stochastic disturbances. It is shown how the choice of eitherpolicy instrument impinges on the effectiveness of the other. In particular,if the domestic money wage is fully indexed to some weighted average of the domestic and foreign price levels, then irrespective of what that chosen weight may be, exchange market intervention is rendered totally ineffective insofar as the stabilization of the real part of the domestic economy is concerned. Likewise, if the monetary authority intervenes in the exchange market so as to exactly accommodate for nominal movements in the demand for money, thereby rendering the excess demand for money dependent only upon real variables, then any form of wage indexation is totally ineffective for the stabilization of the real part of the system. In either polar case, the respective instrument can stabilize the domestic price level. Alternative combinations of policy for the stabilization for domestic and foreign disturbances are considered.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['A number of macroeconomic models of open economies under flexible exchange rate assume a strong version of perfect capital mobility which implies that currency speculation commands no risk premium. If this assumption is dropped a number of important results no longer obtain. First, the exchange rate and interest rate cannot be in steady state unless both the government deficit and current account equal zero, not simply their sum, as would otherwise be the case. Second, even in steady state the domestic interest rate can deviate from the foreign interest rate by an amount which de ends upon relative domestic asset supplies. Finally, introducing risk aversion on the part of speculators can reduce the response on impact of the exchange rate to changes in domestic asset supplies. In this sense rational speculators, if they are less risk averse than other agents, can destabilize exchange markets.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["[fre] du taux d'\xc3\xa9change flexible cr\xc3\xa9e dans le long terme une protection totale contre la deuxi\xc3\xa8me cat\xc3\xa9gorie de perturbations, en g\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9ral seulement une protection partielle pourra \xc3\xaatre r\xc3\xa9alis\xc3\xa9e dans le court terme. En fait, le degr\xc3\xa9 de protection variera entre 0 et 100 % et un certain nombre de cas diff\xc3\xa9rents sont pr\xc3\xa9sent\xc3\xa9s. [eng] This paper considers the insulation properties of flexible exchange rates in the face of two types of foreign price disturbance : (i) An increase in the (steady) foreign rate of inflation ; (ii) A once-and for-all increase in the foreign price level.. With respect to the former, the general conclusion to emerge is that perfect insulation will resuit in both the short run and steady state if and only if those real foreign variables which impinge on the domestic economy are invariant with respect to the exogenous foreign rate of inflation. Although flexible rates provide complete long-run insulation against the second type of disturbance, in general only partial insulation in the short run will be achieved. Indeed the degree of insulation can vary between 0 % and 100 % and varions cases are discussed."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In this paper, we discuss the effects of changes in investable wealth on investment behavior when portfolio choices are subject to a chance constraint. Alternative specifications of the chance constraint are shown to imply increasing, decreasing, or constant relative risk aversion with respect to changes in wealth.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']