 ['Using an innovative survey measure of management practices on over 15,000 firms, we find private equity firms are better managed than government, family, and privately owned firms, and have similar management to publicly listed firms. This is true both in developed and developing countries. Looking at management practices in detail we find that private equity owned firms have strong people management practices (hiring, firing, pay, and promotions), but even stronger monitoring management practices (lean manufacturing, continuous improvement, and monitoring). Plant managers working in private equity owned firms also report greater autonomy from headquarters over sales, marketing, and new product introduction.'] ['The pay of financial sector workers ("bankers") is a focus of public concern especially since the onset of the financial crisis. We document the remarkable rise in the share of aggregate pay going to those at the very top of the distribution over the last decade in the UK and highlight the role of the financial sector. Rising bonuses paid to bankers accounted for around two-thirds of the increase in the national wage bill ("earnings pie") taken by the top one percent of workers since 1999. Surprisingly, even after the crisis bankers took at least as large a share of the earnings pie in 2011 as they did at the peak of the boom in 2007 and saw no worsening in their employment outcomes relative to other similar workers. Having described the scale of bankers\' pay, we discuss the policy responses that have been proposed to address the issue such as transparency, numerical bonus targets, bonus clawbacks and taxation.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' type="main"&gt; Innovation processes within corporations increasingly tap into international technology sources, yet little is known about the relative contribution of different types of innovation channels. We investigate the effectiveness of different types of international technology sourcing activities using survey information on German companies complemented with information from the European Patent Office. German firms with inventors based in the United States disproportionately benefit from R&amp;D; knowledge located in the United States. The positive influence on total factor productivity is larger if the research of the inventors results in coapplications of patents with US companies. Moreover, research cooperation with American suppliers also enables German firms to better tap into US R&amp;D;, but cooperation with customers and competitors does not appear to aid technology sourcing. The results suggest that the \xe2\x80\x9cbrain drain\xe2\x80\x9d to the United States can have upsides for corporations tapping into American know-how.'] [' Over the last decade the World Management Survey (WMS) has collected firm-level management practices data across multiple sectors and countries. We developed the survey to try to explain the large and persistent total factor productivity (TFP) differences across firms and countries. This review paper discusses what has been learned empirically and theoretically from the WMS and other recent work on management practices. Our preliminary results suggest that about a quarter of cross-country and within-country TFP gaps can be accounted for by management practices. Management seems to matter both qualitatively and quantitatively for performance at the level of the firm and the nation. Competition, governance, human capital, and informational frictions help account for the variation in management. We make some suggestions for both policy and future research.'] [' We test the hypothesis that information and communication technologies (ICT) polarize labor markets by increasing demand for the highly educated at the expense of the middle educated, with little effect on low-educated workers. Using data on the United States, Japan, and nine European countries from 1980 to 2004, we find that industries with faster ICT growth shifted demand from middle-educated workers to highly educated workers, consistent with ICT-based polarization. Trade openness is also associated with polarization, but this is not robust to controlling for R&amp;D.; Technologies account for up to a quarter of the growth in demand for highly educated workers. \xc2\xa9 2014 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['What policies and institutions are needed to sustain long-run growth in the UK? We describe an optimistic story of the UK economy over the past 30 years. From the late 1970s, the UK reversed a century of relative decline in terms of per capita GDP with our main counterparts in the US, France and Germany. A key factor behind this improvement was an array of policy changes including an expansion of higher education and greater competition in product and labour markets. However, major weaknesses with respect to long-run investment in human capital, infrastructure and innovation remain. These are hampered by problems of short-termism and policy risk. We propose a series of radical reforms to address these problems: such as more flexibility in schooling with a new focus on disadvantage; a new architecture for national infrastructure decisions and more competition in banking.'] ['We explain a counterintuitive empirical finding: Firms facing more import competition do more innovation. In our model, factors are trapped inside a firm. An increase in import competition encourages a firm to innovate by reducing the opportunity cost of inputs. Without trapped factors, trade liberalization leads to a small permanent increase in the worldwide rate of growth. With trapped factors, firms that face more import competition do relatively more innovation. The extra innovation induced by trapped factors induces a small permanent increase in aggregate output, consumption, and welfare, generalizing the appropriate estimate of the gains from trade.'] ['We provide new evidence on the growth in pay at the very top of the wage distribution in the United Kingdom. Sectoral decompositions show that workers in the financial sector have accounted for the majority of the gains at the top over the last decade. New results are also presented on the pay of CEOs in the United Kingdom. We show how improved measurement of pay points to a stronger pay-performance link than previously estimated. This link is stronger, and more symmetric, for those firms in which institutional investors play a larger role.'] ['We find that greater institutional ownership is associated with more innovation. To explore the mechanism, we contrast the "lazy manager" hypothesis with a model where institutional owners increase innovation incentives through reducing career risks. The evidence favors career concerns. First, we find complementarity between institutional ownership and product market competition, whereas the lazy manager hypothesis predicts substitution. Second, CEOs are less likely to be fired in the face of profit downturns when institutional ownership is higher. Finally, using instrumental variables, policy changes, and disaggregating by type of institutional owner, we argue that the effect of institutions on innovation is causal. (JEL G23, G32, L25, M10, O31, O34)'] [' What was the productivity record under the Labour government of 1997\xe2\x80\x932010? I show that productivity growth (and economic performance in general) was good when the UK is compared with its main international peers. Only the US had stronger productivity growth and the UK did better than the US in terms of the jobs market. Much of this improved performance was a continuation of the pattern since 1979 which broke a century of relative decline. Some part of the improvement is directly linked to policies, especially over human capital, innovation, and competition. We discuss the recent \xe2\x80\x98productivity puzzle\xe2\x80\x99\xe2\x80\x94the disappointing productivity figures since the onset of the Great Recession in 2008\xe2\x80\x94and argue that our conclusions are unchanged as most other OECD countries have also experienced poor measured productivity. Copyright 2013, Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' US productivity growth accelerated after 1995 (unlike Europe\'s), particularly in sectors that intensively use information technologies (IT). Using two new micro panel datasets we show that US multinationals operating in Europe also experienced a "productivity miracle." US multinationals obtained higher productivity from IT than non-US multinationals, particularly in the same sectors responsible for the US productivity acceleration. Furthermore, establishments taken over by US multinationals (but not by non-US multinationals) increased the productivity of their IT. Combining pan-European firm-level IT data with our management practices survey, we find that the US IT related productivity advantage is primarily due to its tougher "people management" practices. (JEL D24, E23, F23, M10, M16, O30)'] ['We study the impact of minimum wages on firm profitability, exploiting the changes induced by the introduction of a UK national minimum wage in 1999. We use pre-policy information on the distribution of wages to implement a difference-in-differences approach. Minimum wages raise wages, but also significantly reduce profitability (especially in industries with relatively high market power). This is consistent with a simple model where wage gains from minimum wages map directly into profit reductions. There is some suggestive evidence of longer run adjustment to the minimum wage through falls in net entry rates. (JEL J31, J38, L25)'] ['We examine the \xe2\x80\x9chome bias\xe2\x80\x9d of international knowledge spillovers as measured by the speed of patent citations (i.e. knowledge spreads slowly over international boundaries). We present the first compelling econometric evidence that the geographical localization of knowledge spillovers has fallen over time, as we would expect from the dramatic fall in communication and travel costs. Our proposed estimator controls for correlated fixed effects and censoring in duration models and we apply it to data on over two million citations between 1975 and 1999. Home bias declines substantially when we control for fixed effects: there is practically no home bias for the more \xe2\x80\x9cmodern\xe2\x80\x9d sectors such as pharmaceuticals and information/communication technologies.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['A classic question in industrial organization is whether competition raises productivity and if so, through what mechanism? I discuss recent empirical evidence from both large-scale databases and specific industries which suggests that tougher competition does indeed raise productivity and one of the main mechanisms is through improving management practices. To establish this, I report on new research seeking to quantify management. I relate this to theoretical perspectives on the economics of competition and management, arguing that management should be seen at least in part as a transferable technology. A range of recent econometric studies suggests that (i) competition increases management quality and (ii) improved management quality boosts productivity.'] ["We study the determinants and consequences of family-friendly workplace practices (FFWP) using a sample of over 450 manufacturing firms in Germany, France, U.K., and U.S. We find a positive correlation between firm productivity and FFWP. This association disappears, however, once we control for a measure of the quality of management practices. We further find that firms with a higher proportion of female managers and more skilled workers, as well as well-managed firms, tend to implement more FFWP. Conversely, a firm's environment does not have a significant impact on the FFWP it provides.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['This paper describes and explains some of the principal trends in the wage and skill distribution in recent decades. Increases in wage inequality started in the US and UK at the end of the 1970s, but are now widespread. A good fraction of this inequality trend is due to technology-related increases in the demand for skilled workers outstripping the growth of their supply. Since the early 1990s, labor markets have become more polarized with jobs in the middle third of the wage distribution shrinking and those in the bottom and top third rising. I argue that this is because computerization complements the most skilled tasks, but substitutes for routine tasks performed by middle wage occupations such as clerks, leaving the demand for the lowest skilled service tasks largely unaffected. Finally, I argue that technology is partly endogenous, for example it has been spurred by trade with China. Thus, trade does matter for changes in the labor market, but through a different mechanism than conventionally thought.'] [' In many sectors, pay is regulated to be equal across heterogeneous geographical labor markets. When the competitive outside wage is higher than the regulated wage, there are likely to be falls in quality. We exploit panel data from the population of English hospitals in which regulated pay for nurses is essentially flat across the country. Higher outside wages significantly worsen hospital quality as measured by hospital deaths for emergency heart attacks. A 10 percent increase in the outside wage is associated with a 7 percent increase in death rates. Furthermore, the regulation increases aggregate death rates in the public health care system. (c) 2010 by The University of Chicago. All rights reserved..'] ['We present a survey of recent contributions in empirical organizational economics, focusing on management practices and decentralization. Productivity dispersion between firms and countries has motivated the improved measurement of firm organization across industries and countries. There appears to be substantial variation in management practices and decentralization not only between countries, but also especially within countries. Much of the poorer average management quality in countries like Brazil and India seems to result from a long tail of poorly managed firms, which barely exist in the United States. Some stylized facts include the following: (a) Competition seems to foster improved management and decentralization; (b) larger firms, skill-intensive plants, and foreign multinationals appear better managed and are more decentralized; (c) firms that are both family owned and managed appear to have worse management and are more centralized; and (d) firms facing an environment of lighter labor market regulations and more human capital specialize relatively more in people management. There is evidence for complementarities between information and communication technology, decentralization, and management, but the relationship is complex, and identification of the productivity effects of organizational practices remains a challenge for future research.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Economists have long puzzled over the astounding differences in productivity between firms and countries. In this paper, we present evidence on a possible explanation for persistent differences in productivity at the firm and the national level -- namely, that such differences largely reflect variations in management practices. We have, over the last decade, undertaken a large survey research program to systematically measure management practices across firms, industries, and countries. Our survey approach focuses on aspects of management like systematic performance monitoring, setting appropriate targets, and providing incentives for good performance. We explain how we measure management; identify some basic patterns in our data; then turn to the question of why management practices vary so much across firms and nations. What we find is a combination of imperfectly competitive markets, family ownership of firms, regulations restricting management practices, and informational barriers allow bad management to persist.'] ["There is a widespread sense that over the last two decades firms have been decentralizing decisions to employees further down the managerial hierarchy. Economists have developed a range of theories to account for delegation, but there is less empirical evidence, especially across countries. This has limited the ability to understand the phenomenon of decentralization. To address the empirical lacuna we have developed a research program to measure the internal organization of firms - including their decentralization decisions - across a large range of industries and countries. In this paper we investigate whether greater product market competition increases decentralization. For example, tougher competition may make local manager's information more valuable, as delays to decisions become more costly. Since globalization and liberalization have increased the competitiveness of product markets, one explanation for the trend towards decentralization could be increased competition. Of course there are a range of other factors that may also be at play, including human capital, information and communication technology, culture and industrial composition. To tackle these issues we collected detailed information on the internal organization of firms across nations. The few datasets that exist are either from a single industry or (at best) across many firms in a single country. We analyze data on almost 4,000 firms across twelve countries in Europe, North America and Asia. We find that competition does indeed seem to foster greater decentralization.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' There has been a remarkable increase in wage inequality in the United States, UK, and many other countries over the past three decades. A significant part of this appears to be within observable groups (such as experience-gender-skill cells). A generally untested implication of many theories rationalizing the growth of within-group inequality is that firm-level productivity dispersion should also have increased. We utilize a UK firm-level panel dataset covering the manufacturing and non-manufacturing sectors since the early 1980s. We find evidence that productivity inequality has increased. Existing studies have typically underestimated this phenomenon because they focus only on the manufacturing sector where inequality has risen much less and which has shrunk rapidly. Most of the increase in individual wage inequality can be accounted for by an increase in inequality between firms (and within industries). Increased productivity dispersion appears to be linked with new technologies as suggested by models such as Caselli ( 1999 , Am. Econ. Rev ., 89, 78--102) and is not primarily due to an increase in transitory shocks, greater sorting or entry/exit dynamics. Copyright 2010 The Author 2010. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Associazione ICC. All rights reserved., Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Many business, academic, and scientific groups have recommended that the Congress substantially increase R&amp;D; spending in the near future. President Bush\xe2\x80\x99s American Competitiveness Initiative calls for a doubling of spending over the next decade in selected agencies that deal with the physical sciences, including the National Science Foundation. We consider the rationale for government R&amp;D; spending in the context of globalization and as an investment in human capital and knowledge creation with gestation times far longer than federal funding cycles. To assess the impact of a large increase in R&amp;D; spending on the science job market, we examine the impact of the 1998\xe2\x80\x932003 doubling of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) budget on the biomedical sciences. We find that the rapid increase in NIH spending and ensuing deceleration created substantial adjustment problems in the market for research and failed to address long&amp;hyphen;standing problems with scientific careers that are likely to deter many young people from choosing a scientific career. We argue that because research simultaneously produces knowledge and adds to the human capital of researchers, which has greater value for young scientists because of their longer future career life span than for older scientists, there is a human capital\xe2\x80\x93based reason for giving awards to younger researchers relative to equally competent older researchers.'] ['We use an innovative survey tool to collect management practice data from more than 900 medium sized manufacturing firms across Europe and the US. Our measures of managerial practices are strongly associated with several measures of firm level performance. Management practices display significant crosscountry and within-country differences, with US firms on average better managed than European firms. Italian firms show a significant managerial gap vis-\xc3\xa0-vis the US, particularly among Italian companies that are owned and run by families. We document a positive association between product market competition and the overall level of skills within the firm. Product market competition and family-owned, family-run firms account for 60% of the American managerial advantage over Italians.'] [' This paper analyzes the relationship between the diffusion of new technologies and the decentralization of firms. Centralized control relies on the information of the principal, which we equate with publicly available information. Decentralized control, on the other hand, delegates authority to a manager with superior information. However, the manager can use his informational advantage to make choices that are not in the best interest of the principal. As the available public information about the specific technology increases, the tradeoff shifts in favor of centralization. We show that firms closer to the technological frontier, firms in more heterogeneous environments, and younger firms are more likely to choose decentralization. Using three data sets on French and British firms in the 1990s, we report robust correlations consistent with these predictions. (c) 2007 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology..'] [" We use an innovative survey tool to collect management practice data from 732 medium-sized firms in the United States, France, Germany, and the United Kingdom. These measures of managerial practice are strongly associated with firm-level productivity, profitability, Tobin's Q, and survival rates. Management practices also display significant cross-country differences, with U.S. firms on average better managed than European firms, and significant within-country differences, with a long tail of extremely badly managed firms. We find that poor management practices are more prevalent when product market competition is weak and/or when family-owned firms pass management control down to the eldest sons (primogeniture). (c) 2007 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.."] [' This paper shows that with (partial) irreversibility higher uncertainty reduces the responsiveness of investment to demand shocks. Uncertainty increases real option values making firms more cautious when investing or disinvesting. This is confirmed both numerically for a model with a rich mix of adjustment costs, time-varying uncertainty, and aggregation over investment decisions and time and also empirically for a panel of manufacturing firms. These \xe2\x80\x9ccautionary effects\xe2\x80\x9d of uncertainty are large\xe2\x80\x94going from the lower quartile to the upper quartile of the uncertainty distribution typically halves the first year investment response to demand shocks. This implies the responsiveness of firms to any given policy stimulus may be much weaker in periods of high uncertainty, such as after the 1973 oil crisis and September 11, 2001. Copyright 2007, Wiley-Blackwell.'] [' It is standard in the literature on training to use wages as a sufficient statistic for productivity. This paper examines the effects of work-related training on direct measures of productivity. Using a new panel of British industries 1983-96 and a variety of estimation techniques we find that work-related training is associated with significantly higher productivity. A 1% point increase in training is associated with an increase in value added per hour of about 0.6% and an increase in hourly wages of about 0.3%. We also show evidence using individual-level data sets that is suggestive of training externalities. Copyright 2006 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] [" Increasing product-market competition is believed to be a driving force behind higher productivity. However, even those critics of globalization who accept this argument claim that there is a hard trade-off because tougher competition comes at the price of reducing work--life balance (WLB). Optimists, by contrast, argue that competition can spur better WLB practices and therefore higher productivity, so there is a 'win--win' situation. To address this issue we use an innovative survey tool to collect the first international data on management practices and WLB practices , surveying 732 medium-sized manufacturing firms in the USA, France, Germany, and the UK. We find that the USA has the best management practices but the worst work--life balance. When we look within countries, however, we reject the pessimistic 'trade-off' model. First, WLB outcomes are significantly associated with better management, so that well-run firms are both more productive and offer better conditions for their employees. Second, tougher competition increases average management quality but does not negatively affect employees' working environment. As with many other studies, better WLB practices are associated with significantly higher productivity. This relationship disappears, however, after controlling for the overall quality of management. Copyright 2006, Oxford University Press."] [" This article investigates the evolution of quality-adjusted prices for servers motivated by two facts. First, the recent productivity acceleration in the US is closely linked to the spread of IT of which networked computing is a large component. Second, the growth of network computing itself has been fostered by the rapid growth in the quality and quantity of server hardware and software. The preferred hedonic price index fell much more rapidly than the standard 'matched model' price index, mainly due to the selection bias in the standard model arising from the exit of obsolete models, which would have had the fastest price falls. Copyright 2006 Royal Economic Society."] [' This paper reports results from a recent survey conducted on unionization in over 650 firms in the private sector in the UK. The survey shows that since 1997 there has been a slight fall in derecognition, but a relatively large increase in union recognition. This increase in new recognition agreements is consistent with the idea that the incoming Labour government had a positive effect on the ability of unions to gain recognition, either through the 1999 legislation or more indirectly through changing the political climate. Copyright Blackwell Publishing Ltd/London School of Economics 2006.'] ['We examine the "technology sourcing" hypothesis that foreign research labs located in the U.S. tap into U.S. R&amp;D; spillovers and improve home country productivity. We show that U.K. firms that established a high proportion of inventors based in the U.S. by 1990 benefited disproportionately from the growth of U.S. R&amp;D; stock over the next ten years. We estimate that U.S. R&amp;D; during the 1990s was associated with 5 percent higher Total Factor Productivity for U.K. manufacturing firms in 2000 (about $13 billion), with the majority of benefits accruing to firms with an innovative presence in the U.S. (JEL F23, O32, O33)'] [" With increasing globalisation of knowledge, there are increased opportunities to 'learn' from the experience of policy interventions elsewhere. This paper presents evidence on the extent of international convergence in public policy, with particular focus on labour, welfare, savings and retirement policy. Questions addressed in this framework include: to what extent is policy diffusion or convergence a real and relevant phenomenon? What role have economists played in the transfer of policy across national domains? Has policy transfer led to 'better' public policy? Are there any practical limitations to policy convergence? Copyright 2005 Royal Economic Society."] ['Support for many R&amp;D; and technology policies relies on empirical evidence that R&amp;D; "spills over" between firms. But there are two countervailing R&amp;D; spillovers: positive effects from technology spillovers and negative effects from business stealing by product market rivals. We develop a general framework showing that technology and product market spillovers have testable implications for a range of performance indicators, and exploit these using distinct measures of a firm\xe2\x80\x99s position in technology space and product market space. We show using panel data on U.S. firms between 1981 and 2001 that both technology and product market spillovers operate, but that net social returns are several times larger than private returns. The spillover effects are also revealed when we analyze three high-tech sectors in detail - pharmaceuticals, computer hardware and telecommunication equipment. Using the model we evaluate three R&amp;D; subsidy policies and show that the typical focus of support for small and medium firms may be misplaced.'] ['This paper tests for the importance of cash flow on investment in fixed capital and R&amp;D; using firm-level panel data in two countries between 1985 and 1994. For German firms, cash flow is not informative in simple econometric models of fixed investment or R&amp;D.; In identical specifications for British firms, cash flow is informative about investment, although not about the level of R&amp;D; spending conditional on the R&amp;D; participation decision. In the UK, we also find that investment is less sensitive to cash flow for R&amp;D-performing; firms, and that cash flow predicts whether firms perform R&amp;D; or not. We confirm that these differences do not simply reflect a greater role for current cash flow in forecasting future sales. These results suggest that financial constraints are more significant in Britain, that they affect the decision to engage in R&amp;D; rather than the level of R&amp;D; spending by participants, and that consequently the British firms that do engage in R&amp;D; are a self-selected group where financing constraints tend to be less binding.'] [' Many writers have claimed that research and development (R&amp;D;) has two faces. In addition to the conventional role of stimulating innovation, R&amp;D; enhances technology transfer (absorptive capacity). We explore this idea empirically using a panel of industries across twelve OECD countries. We find R&amp;D; to be statistically and economically important in both technological catch-up and innovation. Human capital also plays an major role in productivity growth, but we only find a small effect of trade. In failing to take account of R&amp;D-based; absorptive capacity, existing U.S.-based studies may underestimate the return to R&amp;D.; \xc2\xa9 2004 President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [' This paper exploits area-based piloting and age-related eligibility rules to identify treatment effects of a labor market program-the New Deal for Young People in the U.K. A central focus is on substitution/displacement effects and on equilibrium wage effects. The program includes extensive job assistance and wage subsidies to employers. We find that the impact of the program significantly raised transitions to employment by about 5 percentage points. The impact is robust to a wide variety of nonexperimental estimators. However, we present some evidence that this effect may not be as large in the longer run. (JEL: J18, J23, J38) Copyright (c) 2004 The European Economic Association.'] [' We offer an extensive summary and a critical discussion of the empirical literature on the impact of human capital on macro-economic performance, with a particular focus on UK policy. We also highlight methodological issues and make recommendations for future research priorities. Copyright Blackwell Publishing Ltd, 2003.'] [' This paper presents a single unified framework that integrates the theoretical literature on Schumpeterian endogenous growth and major strands of the empirical literature on R&amp;D;, productivity growth and productivity convergence. Starting from a structural model of endogenous growth following Aghion and Howitt (1992,1998) , we provide microeconomic foundations for the reduced-form equations for total factor productivity (TFP); growth frequently estimated empirically using industry-level data. R&amp;D; affects both innovation and the assimilation of others\' discoveries ("absorptive capacity"). Long-run cross-country differences in productivity emerge endogenously, and the analysis implies that many existing studies underestimate R&amp;D;\'s social rate of return by neglecting absorptive capacity. Copyright The editors of the "Scandinavian Journal of Economics", 2002 .'] [' Analysing the new IFS-Leverhulme database on over 200 major British firms since 1968 we show that patents have an economically and statistically significant impact on firm-level productivity and market value. While patenting feeds into market values immediately it appears to have a slower effect on productivity. This generates valuable real options because patents provide exclusive rights to develop new innovations, enabling firms to delay investments. Higher market uncertainty, which increases the value of real options, reduces the impact of new patents on productivity. If the government"s policy to reduce uncertainty is successful then this should increase the productivity of Britain"s knowledge capital. Copyright Royal Economic Society 2002.'] ['This paper examines the impact of fiscal incentives on the level of R&amp;D; investment. An econometric model of R&amp;D; investment is estimated using a new panel of data on tax changes and R&amp;D; spending in nine OECD countries over a 19-year period (1979\xe2\x80\x931997). We find evidence that tax incentives are effective in increasing R&amp;D; intensity. This is true even after allowing for permanent country-specific characteristics, world macro shocks and other policy influences. We estimate that a 10% fall in the cost of R&amp;D; stimulates just over a 1% rise in the level of R&amp;D; in the short-run, and just under a 10% rise in R&amp;D; in the long-run.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' We investigate the relationship between export market shares and relative unit labour costs using a long panel of 12 manufacturing industries across 14 OECD countries. We ask how sensitive are export market shares to changes in relative costs and what determines this sensitivity? Both costs and embodied technology are important, but neither can fully explain changing export positions. We explore whether residual country-specific trends might be linked to "deep" structural features of economies. Sensitivity to labour costs is lower in high tech industries and core ERM countries. Industry elasticities have increased, especially in industries subject to increasing product market competition.'] ['This paper concerns the new economy (alias the knowledge-based economy). I examine the different meanings attached to the new economy term and the evidence surrounding it, concentrating on the upsurge in US productivity growth between 1995 and 2000. I argue that the reports of the death of the new economy have been greatly exaggerated. There is evidence that information technology has transformed the US economy and is thus likely to have a strong impact on the UK economy in coming years. I discuss how elements of public policy should adapt to these economic changes, both in terms of an overall framework and in applications to specific areas (technology policy, human capital policy, competition policy and industrial policy). The new economy is a place of hope and fear. The hope is that policy activism can cement in potential productivity gains; the fear is that government actions will not mitigate the seemingly ineluctable pressures towards social exclusion.'] [' This paper investigates the determination and consequences of organizational changes (OC) in a panel of British and French establishments. Organizational changes include the decentralization of authority, delayering of managerial functions, and increased multitasking. We argue that OC and skills are complements. We offer support for the hypothesis of "skill-biased" organizational change with three empirical findings. First, organizational changes reduce the demand for unskilled workers in both countries. Second, OC is negatively associated with increases in regional skill price differentials (a measure of the relative supply of skill). Third, OC leads to greater productivity increases in establishments with larger initial skill endowments. Technical change is also complementary with human capital, but the effects of OC is not simply due to its correlation with technological change but has an independent role. \xc2\xa9 2001 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['This paper investigates the economic impact of the government\xe2\x80\x99s proposed new UK R&amp;D; tax credit. We measure the benefit of the credit by the effect on value added in the short and long runs. This is simulated from existing econometric estimates of the tax-price elasticity of research and development (R&amp;D;) and the effect of R&amp;D; on productivity. For the latter, we allow R&amp;D; to have an effect on technology transfer (catching up with the technological frontier) as well as innovation (pushing the frontier forward). We then compare the increase in value added to the likely exchequer costs of the programme under a number of scenarios. In the long run, the increase in GDP far outweighs the costs of the tax credit. The short-run effect is far smaller, with value added only exceeding cost if R&amp;D; grows at or below the rate of inflation.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper examines the empirical relationship between technological innovations, market share and stock market value. New developments in the estimation of dynamic count data models are used to control for unobserved firm specific heterogeneity. We find a robust and positive effect of market share on observable headcounts of innovations and patents although increased product market competition in the industry tends to stimulate innovative activity. Furthermore, the impact of innovation on market value is larger for firms with higher market shares. We argue that our results are consistent with models where high market share firms have incentives to pre-emptively innovate. Copyright 1999 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] [' This paper examines alternative approaches to wage subsidy programmes. It does this in the context of a recent active labour market reform for the young unemployed in Britain. This \xe2\x80\x9cNew Deal\xe2\x80\x9d reform and the characteristics of the target group are examined in detail. We discuss theoretical considerations, the existing empirical evidence and propose two strategies for evaluation. The first suggests an ex-post \xe2\x80\x98trend adjusted difference in difference\xe2\x80\x99 estimator. The second, relates to a model based ex-ante evaluation. We present the conditions for each to provide a reliable evaluation and fit some of the crucial parameters using data from the British Labour Force Survey. We stress that the success of this type of labour market programmes hinge on dynamic aspects of the youth labour market, in particular the pay-off to experience and training. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 1999'] [' The skill structure of wages and employment has altered markedly in recent years. In some countries (most notably the UK and the US) wage inequality has risen sharply and in most countries relative demand has shifted unfavourably against the less skilled. In this paper we reassess the evidence that rising international competition from developing countries is the crucial factor underpinning these changes. Our results, based on newly constructed internationally comparable industry data, find little support for the predictions of the basic Heckscher-Ohlin (H-O) trade model. Copyright 1999 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["U.S. research has found that unionization adversely affects research and development investment, consistent with the view that labor unions' rent-seeking activities act as a tax on innovation. In this U.K. study, preliminary analysis of two datasets (a cross-section of plants and a company panel for the years 1983-90) shows the same negative correlation. This correlation completely disappears, however, when controls are included for such factors as cohort effects and the availability of innovative technology in the industry. Moreover, R and D intensity appears to have been higher in enterprises where there were low levels of union density than in those where there was no union presence. Some evidence suggests that the difference between U.K and U.S. results may be due to cross-country differences in the prioritization of non-pay issues in bargaining. (Abstract courtesy JSTOR.)"] [' This paper compares the changing skill structure of wage bills and employment in the United States with six other OECD countries (Denmark, France, Germany, Japan, Sweden, and the United Kingdom). We investigate whether a directly observed measure of technical change (R&amp;D; intensity) is closely linked to the growth in the importance of more highly skilled workers which has occurred in all countries. Evidence of a significant association between skill upgrading and R&amp;D; intensity is uncovered in all seven countries. These results provide evidence that skill-biased technical change is an international phenomenon that has had a clear effect of increasing the relative demand for skilled workers. \xc2\xa9 2000 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] [' It is often argued that technical change is responsible for the increase in wage inequality in Britain and the United States in the 1980s and 1990s. In this paper we examine this argument using data from individuals and establishments. It is found that the presence of micro-electronic technologies in workplaces is associated with higher earnings, especially for skilled workers. Decompositions suggest that technical change could have been a cause of the increase in skills premium for highly skilled workers. Nevertheless, our view is that the correlation between wages and plant-level technology is mainly driven by the effect of high wages on the propensity to introduce new technologies rather than vice versa. This view is supported by simultaneous models of the wage-technology relationship.'] ['This paper examines the arguments for changing the ways that UK drug prices are regulated. In the UK, NHS pharmaceutical expenditures on branded drugs, currently worth about \xc2\xa33 billion a year, have been regulated by the Pharmaceutical Price Regulation Scheme (PPRS) since 1978. We argue that, in publicly funded healthcare systems, pharmaceutical price regulation is necessitated by a tendency towards excessive government expenditure because of over-prescription and the monopoly power of firms with on-patent drugs. We briefly explain the operation of the PPRS, which is based on rate-of-return regulation, and discuss its merits and drawbacks. We then consider five alternative pricing systems: free pricing, therapeutic benefit pricing, international reference pricing, therapeutic reference pricing and RPI - X price regulation. However, we reject all these alternatives in favour of a reformed PPRS. We suggest three potential reforms of the PPRS: an RPI - X cost allowance if feasible or a widening of the rate-of-return bands otherwise; the introduction of a marketing innovation allowance; and greater regulatory transparency.'] [' This article uses British firm-level panel data on actual innovative activity drawn from different statistical sources to identify the effect of technical change on jobs. Previous work tends to find positive associations of proxies for technical change and employment but such studies suffer from various statistical drawbacks. In this study, even when one controls for fixed effects, dynamics, and endogeneity, innovations have a positive and significant effect on employment, which persists over several years. There seems to be little direct role for spillover effects from industry innovations or any role for industry wages or union power. Copyright 1997 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Recent empirical studies point to higher wages enjoyed by workers in environments where new technologies are intensively used. An examination of the 1984 and 1990 establishment-based WIRS reveals similar patterns. This paper argues that endogeneity bias is endemic in these results. Controlling for this endogeneity bias suggests that the estimated impact of new technologies on wages is seriously upward-biased. It is more likely that the earnings-technology correlation is driven by the impact of higher earnings on technical change rather than vice versa. Copyright 1997 by The London School of Economics and Political Science'] ['This paper examines the innovative history of a number of UK firms using two large databases, looking for evidence consistent with the view that firms who innovate typically do so persistently. The first sample contains 3,304 firms who registered at least one patent in the United States during the period 1969\xe2\x80\x9388, while the second consists of 1,624 firms who produced at least one major innovation at any time in the United Kingdom from 1945\xe2\x80\x9382. Both datasets yield the same conclusion, namely that very few innovative firms are persistently innovative.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" This paper examines the impact of technological innovation on wages using a panel of British firms. A head-count measure of major innovations between 1945 and 1983 is combined with share price and accounting information. Innovating firms are found to have higher average wages but rival innovation tends to depress own wages. This appears consistent with a model where wages are partly determined by a sharing in the rents generated by innovation. In other words, innovation may be a good instrument for proxies for rents such as profitability, quasi rents, or Tobin's (average) Q. Instrumental variable estimates of the elasticity between wages and quasi rents are about 0.29. Copyright 1996, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] ["This paper examines the impact of technological change on net job creation. Innovation (by a company or its rivals) can affect many dimensions of a firm's employment decision and we distinguish between three: changes due to higher output, changes due to shifting factor intensities and changes in the adjustment costs of firms. The parameter estimates from a structural labour demand model suggest that firms with a higher stock of innovations face lower adjustment costs than less technologically progressive firms. There is no significant capital deepening effect from innovation, nor spillover effects on employment from innovations elsewhere in the firm's industry."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper examines the application of count data models to firm level panel data on technological innovations. The model the authors propose exhibits dynamic feedback and unobserved heterogeneity. We develop a fixed effects estimator that generalizes the standard Poisson and negative binomial models allowing for dynamic feedback through both the firm's stock of knowledge and its product market power. By using the long pre-sample history of innovation information this 'entry stock' estimator is shown to control for correlated fixed effects and is compared with an alternative nonlinear GMM estimator. We find evidence of history dependence in innovation activity although variables reflecting the company's economic environment are also found to play a major role. Copyright 1995 by Royal Economic Society."] ['A long-standing concern surrounding the performance of the UK economy is its perceived failure to maintain the same technological pace as its competitors. Industrial research and development (R&amp;D;) expenditure as a proportion of GDP fell during the 1980s at a time when all other G7 countries increased the proportion of their output given over to R&amp;D.; This ratio is now lower in the UK than in most other G7 countries. If this world-wide trend toward more R&amp;D; indicates that industrial production is becoming increasingly science-based, then the UK may be in danger of becoming a relatively low-tech economy. One purpose of this article is to examine whether there is a rational basis for these fears.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper presents some empirical models of profitability using panel data covering 709 large U.K. companies ove r the 1970s and 1980s, focusing specifically on the role of aggregate demand shocks in shaping firm-level profitability. In basic regressi ons and in quite complex econometric models, the results suggest that firm-level profit margins fell heavily during the deep manufacturing recession of the early 1980s and, as such, are consistent with model s predicting the procyclical nature of profit margins. This result hol ds across different product groups (producer goods, consumer durables a nd nondurables), though the timing of the impact of aggregate shocks appears to differ. Copyright 1993 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] [" This article seeks to evaluate the effects on corporate profitability of producing a major innovation. We examine two types of effect: innovations can have a direct but transitory effect on profitability associated with the production of a new product or the use of a new process, and innovations can have an indirect effect on how firms generate profits because they signal the transformation of a firm's internal capabilities associated with the process of innovating. Positive direct effects on the order of [[sterling]]2.1 million spread over seven years are observed for a sample of 721 large, quoted U.K. firms. More fundamentally, large indirect effects are also observed, not least because innovating firms seem to be more able to benefit from spillovers and are relatively insensitive to adverse macroeconomic shocks. These indirect effects associated with the transformation of a firm's internal capabilities may be as much as three times larger than the direct effects of innovation."] [' Establishment-level data from the 1984 Workplace Industrial Relations Survey are used to investigate the relationship between the presence of multiple recognized unions and wages, financial performance, and the incidence of industrial action. Where multiple unions are present, it is found to be important to distinguish between whether they bargain separately or jointly, and the most important effects are isolated where separate bargains occur. The results suggest that plants with multiunionism and separate bargaining arrangements pay higher wages, have lower financial performance, and are more prone to strike action lasting at least one day. Copyright 1993 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics.']