 ['Supply of a nonrenewable resource adjusts through two margins: the rate at which new fields are opened and the rate of depletion of open fields. The paper combines these margins in a model in which there is a continuum of fields with varying capital costs. Opening a new field involves sinking a capital cost, and the date of opening is chosen to maximize the present value of the field. Depletion of each open field follows a Hotelling rule, modified by the fact that faster depletion reduces the amount that can ultimately be extracted. The paper studies the equilibrium paths of output and price. Under specific but reasonable assumptions on demand and the cost distribution of deposits it is found that the rate of growth of price is constant and independent of the rate of interest, depending instead on characteristics of demand and geology.'] ['The permanent income rule is seldom the optimal response to a windfall of foreign exchange, such as that from a resource discovery. Absorptive capacity constraints require domestic investment, and investment in structures requires non-traded inputs the supply of which is constrained by the initial capital stock. This, particularly when combined with intra-sectoral capital immobility, delays adjustment and creates short run \xe2\x80\x98Dutch disease\xe2\x80\x99 symptoms as the real exchange rate sharply appreciates and overshoots its long run value. Optimal revenue management requires investing in the domestic non-traded goods sector and a slow build up of consumption. Accumulation of foreign assets adjusts to accommodate the time-paths of domestic consumption and investment.'] [' Are there benefits to the host country from multinational investments? Does potential value from these investments make active industrial policy worthwhile? We answer the first question affirmatively, having reviewed economic principles and evidence concerning the effects of projects locating in (or not being off-shored from) a country. On the second, policy can have a limited effect in influencing location decisions, but it is doubtful that it is cost effective. Implementation faces lack of information, risk of capture, and, in many cases, non-rigorous processes. Competition between jurisdictions means that much policy is investment diversion not investment creation. There is a case for supra-national controls (as with EU State Aid regulations), for policy to be used only for well-defined market failures, and for better implementation and more rigorous ex ante appraisal and ex post evaluation. Copyright 2013, Oxford University Press.'] ['Global production sharing is determined by international cost differences and frictions related to the costs of unbundling stages spatially. The interaction between these forces depends on engineering details of the production process with two extremes being \xe2\x80\x98snakes\xe2\x80\x99 and \xe2\x80\x98spiders\xe2\x80\x99. Snakes are processes whose sequencing is dictated by engineering; spiders involve the assembly of parts in no particular order. This paper studies spatial unbundling as frictions fall, showing that outcomes are very different for snakes and spiders, even if they share some features. Both snakes and spiders have in common a property that lower frictions produce discontinuous location changes and \xe2\x80\x98overshooting\xe2\x80\x99. Parts may move against their comparative costs because of proximity benefits, and further reductions in frictions lead these parts to be \xe2\x80\x98reshored\xe2\x80\x99. Predictions for trade volumes and the number of fragmented stages are quite different in the two cases. For spiders, a part crosses borders at most twice; the value of trade increases monotonically as frictions fall, except when the assembler relocates and the direction of parts trade is reversed. For snakes the volume of trade and number of endogenously determined stages is bounded only by the fragmentation of the underlying engineering process, and lower frictions monotonically increase trade volumes.'] ["Africa is well endowed with potential for hydro and solar power, but its other endowments \xe2\x80\x93 shortages of capital, skills, and governance capacity \xe2\x80\x93 make most of the green options relatively expensive, while its abundance of hydro-carbons makes fossil fuels relatively cheap. Current power shortages make expansion of power capacity a priority. Africa's endowments, and the consequent scarcities and relative prices, are not immutable and can be changed to bring opportunity costs in Africa closer to those in the rest of the world. The international community can support by increasing Africa's supply of the scarce factors of capital, skills, and governance."] ['Los recursos naturales representan el 20 porciento del comercio global de mercanc\xc3\xadas y poseen varias caracter\xc3\xadsticas distintivas. Tienen precios vol\xc3\xa1tiles, dominan las exportaciones de muchos pa\xc3\xadses y revisten vital importancia para los importadores. Generan grandes rentas cuya distribuci\xc3\xb3n depende de los precios mundiales. En la explotaci\xc3\xb3n y la producci\xc3\xb3n de los recursos extractivos, suele ser necesaria la participaci\xc3\xb3n de corporaciones multinacionales en relaciones contractuales y fiscales con los gobiernos nacionales. Si bien existen incentivos muy importantes para aplicar pol\xc3\xadticas activas, como \xc3\xa9stas suelen adoptar la forma de restricciones a la exportaci\xc3\xb3n y de impuestos nacionales, se encuentran en gran medida al margen de las disciplinas de la OMC. En el presente trabajo se analizan los incentivos y los mecanismos de los que se valen los gobiernos a fin de poder utilizar las pol\xc3\xadticas para modificar sus t\xc3\xa9rminos de intercambio internacionales, redistribuir las rentas en la econom\xc3\xada nacional y promover la industria de procesamiento de recursos naturales. Se plantea que el equilibrio de las pol\xc3\xadticas es ineficiente y da lugar a una gran dispersi\xc3\xb3n de los precios internacionales, hecho que se pone de manifiesto en, por ejemplo, los subsidios e impuestos aplicables a los combustibles y las restricciones a la exportaci\xc3\xb3n de alimentos. Es necesario que las restricciones a la exportaci\xc3\xb3n est\xc3\xa9n amparadas por las disciplinas de la OMC as\xc3\xad como que los pa\xc3\xadses recurran a acuerdos internacionales para complementar los tratados bilaterales de inversi\xc3\xb3n con el fin de crear un entorno que propicie mayores niveles de inversi\xc3\xb3n en el sector.'] ['Much African land currently has low productivity and has attracted investors leasing land as a speculative option on higher future prices or productivity. To be beneficial land deals need to induce productivity enhancing investments. Some of these will be publicly provided (infrastructure, agronomic knowledge), and some can only be provided by \xe2\x80\x98pioneer\xe2\x80\x99 investors who discover what works and create demonstration effects. Such pioneers can be rewarded for the positive externalities they create by being granted options on large areas of land. However, pioneers must be separated from speculators by screening and by requirements to work a fraction of the land.'] ['Many countries have failed to use natural resource wealth to promote growth and development. They have been damaged by the volatility of revenues and have failed to save a sufficiently high proportion of their resource revenues and failed to make high-return investments to support diversification of their economies. This review explores the reasons for these failures and discusses policies to improve performance.'] ['Natural resources account for 20% of world trade and dominate the exports of many countries. Policy is used to manipulate both international and domestic prices of resources, yet policy is largely outside the disciplines of the WTO. The instruments used include export taxes, price controls, production quotas, and domestic producer and consumer taxes (equivalent to trade taxes if no domestic production is possible). We review the literature and argue that the policy equilibrium is inefficient. This inefficiency is exacerbated by market failure in long-run contracts for the exploration and development of natural resources. Properly coordinated policy reforms offer an avenue to resource-exporting and resource-importing countries to overcome these inefficiencies and to obtain mutual gains.'] [' A windfall of natural resources (or aid) faces government with choices of how to manage public debt, investment and the distribution of funds for consumption. The permanent income hypothesis suggests a sustained increase in consumption supported, once resources are depleted, by interest on accumulated foreign assets. However, this strategy is not optimal for capital-scarce developing economies. Incremental consumption should be skewed towards present generations. Savings should be directed to accumulation of domestic private and public capital rather than foreign assets. Optimal policy depends on the impact of distortionary taxation and ability of consumers to borrow against future revenues.'] ['Where imports are financed predominantly by rents from resource extraction or aid the revenue generated by tariffs is illusory. Revenue earned by the tariff is offset by a reduction in the real value of aid and resource rents. Revenue is however moved between accounts in the government budget which, in the case of aid, may reduce the burden of donor conditionality. We demonstrate this proposition for a simple central case and show that the result is not overturned by generalisations around this case. We argue that trade policy formulation in such economies should recognize the illusory nature of tariff revenues.'] ['Productivity is high in cities partly because the urban environment acts as a self-selection mechanism. If workers have imperfect information about the quality of workers with whom they match and matches take place within cities, then high-ability workers will choose to live and work in expensive cities. This self-selection improves the quality of matches in such cities. The mechanism may be reinforced by the development of informational networks in cities with a large proportion of high ability workers. As a consequence productivity in these cities is high for workers of all ability types.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Physical and economic geography both contribute to low levels of income in Africa. The small size of African countries and markets impedes growth through a number of mechanisms. The business environment is prone to monopoly and opportunistic behaviour. Cities are relatively small. Public goods (national and regional are undersupplied). The potential benefits of natural resources are not dispersed widely enough. Growth prospects require better use of natural resource revenues and the development of clusters of export oriented manufacturing in coastal economies. Copyright (c) 2010 the author(s). Journal compilation (c) 2010 RSAI.'] [" Overman H. G., Rice P. and Venables A. J. Economic linkages across space, Regional Studies. A diagrammatic framework is developed to study the economic linkages between regions or cities. Hitherto, such linkages have not been a focus of the literature. The framework is used to analyse the impact of shocks that occur in one region (for example, productivity improvements or increases in housing supply) on other regions, highlighting the key adjustment mechanisms and their long-run implications for incomes, the cost of living, and the spatial distribution of population. The approach is linked to both the New Economic Geography and urban systems literatures and empirical studies are reviewed that quantify the key mechanisms that are identified. Spatial linkages Urban systems New Economic Geography Urban and regional policy [image omitted] Overman H. G., Rice P. et Venables A. J. Des maillons geographiques economiques, Regional Studies. On construit un cadre schematique afin d'etudier les maillons interregionaux ou interurbains economiques. Jusqu'ici, de tels maillons n'ont pas ete le point de mire de la documentation. On se sert de ce cadre pour analyser l'impact des chocs qui ont lieu dans une region (p.e. des ameliorations de la productivite ou des augmentations de l'offre de logement) sur d'autres regions, soulignant les mecanismes d'ajustement essentiels et leurs impacts de longue duree sur les revenus, le cout de la vie et la distribution geographique de la population. L'approche se voit lier a la fois a la documentation sur la Nouvelle geographie economique et les Systemes urbains, et fait la critique des etudes empiriques qui quantifient les mecanismes essentiels identifies. Maillons geographiques Systemes urbains Nouvelle geographie economique Politiques urbaine et regionale Overman H. G., Rice P. und Venables A. J. Wirtschaftliche Verknupfungen zwischen Raumen, Regional Studies. Wir entwickeln einen diagrammatischen Rahmen zur Untersuchung der wirtschaftlichen Verknupfungen zwischen Regionen oder Stadten. Bisher waren solche Verknupfungen kein Schwerpunkt der Literatur. Mit Hilfe dieses Rahmens analysieren wir die Auswirkungen von Schocks in einer Region (z.\xef\xbf\xbdB. eine verbesserte Produktivitat oder ein erhohtes Wohnungsangebot) auf andere Regionen, wobei wir die wichtigsten Anpassungsmechanismen und ihre langfristigen Auswirkungen auf Einkommen, Lebenshaltungskosten und die raumliche Verteilung der Bevolkerung herausarbeiten. Unseren Ansatz verknupfen wir mit der Literatur der neuen Wirtschaftsgeografie und urbanen Systeme; ebenso werten wir empirische Studien aus, in denen die wichtigsten von uns identifizierten Mechanismen quantifiziert werden. Raumliche Verknupfungen Urbane Systeme Neue Wirtschaftsgeografie Stadt- und Regionalpolitik Overman H. G., Rice P. y Venables A. J. Vinculos economicos en el espacio, Regional Studies. Desarrollamos una estructura esquematica para estudiar los vinculos economicos entre regiones o ciudades. Hasta ahora no se habia prestado mucha atencion a estos vinculos en la literatura. Con ayuda de esta estructura analizamos las repercusiones de los choques que ocurren en una region (p. ej., mejoras de productividad o aumentos en la oferta de hogares) en otras regiones, destacando los mecanismos de ajuste principales y sus efectos a largo plazo para los ingresos, el coste de la vida y la distribucion espacial de la poblacion. Unimos nuestro planteamiento con las literaturas de la Nueva Geografia Economica y los Sistemas Urbanos y analizamos los estudios empiricos que cuantifican los mecanismos clave que hemos identificado. Vinculos espaciales Sistemas urbanos Nueva geografia economica Politica urbana y regional"] ['Countries with substantial revenues from renewable resources face a complex range of revenue management issues. What is the optimal time profile of consumption from the revenue, and how much should be saved? Should saving be invested in foreign funds or in the domestic economy? How does government policy influence the private sector, where sustainable growth in the domestic economy must ultimately be generated? This paper develops the issues in a simple two-period model, and argues that analysis must go well beyond the simple permanent income approach sometimes recommended. In developing countries resource revenues relax constraints on the supplies of capital and of government funds. The level of saving should be somewhat lower than under the permanent income hypothesis because of the low income of the current generation. The composition of investment should be tilted to the domestic economy rather than foreign assets. Government prudence can be undermined by private sector expectations, so high levels of spending on public infrastructure may be appropriate as a commitment to invest.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper investigates the scope for international rules to address market failures in trade in natural resources and the associated international transactions of prospecting and investment in resource exploitation. We argue that several market failures are likely to have substantial costs. However, due to the distinctive features of natural resources, the market failures are particular to them. The ad hoc approaches which have attempted to address them to date leave scope for a more systematic and comprehensive approach by the WTO, but the distinctive features of natural resources imply that this could not simply be an application of the rules appropriate for other forms of trade.'] ['This paper addresses the efficient management of natural resource revenues in capital-scarce developing economies. It departs from usual prescriptions based on the permanent income hypothesis and argues that capital-scarce countries should prioritize domestic investment. Because revenue streams are highly volatile, governments should protect consumption from shocks by increasing it only cautiously. Volatility in domestic investment can be moderated by a buffer of international liquidity, but it is also important to structure investment processes to be able to cope efficiently with substantial fluctuations. To date, most of the resource-rich countries of Africa have not had investment rates commensurate with their rate of resource extraction.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper examines city formation in a country whose urban population is growing steadily over time, with new cities required to accommodate this growth. In contrast to most of the literature there is immobility of housing and urban infrastructure, and investment in these assets is taken on the basis of forward-looking behavior. In the presence of these fixed assets cities form sequentially, without the population swings in existing cities that arise in current models, but with swings in house rents. Equilibrium city size, absent government, may be larger or smaller than is efficient, depending on how urban externalities vary with population. Efficient formation of cities with internalization of externalities involves local government intervention and borrowing to finance development. The paper explores the institutions required for successful local government intervention. (Copyright: Elsevier)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The population of South Asia lives almost entirely in one mega-country or two large ones. In contrast, the rather smaller population of sub-Saharan Africa is spread across some fifty countries. Does this political fragmentation have economic consequences? We suggest that both private economic activity and the provision of public goods benefit from powerful scale economies that confer advantages on the South Asian model. Paradoxically, although Africa has a greater need than other regions for supra-national power structures, it has made far less progress towards regional unity.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Despite a diminishing role in industrial countries, the manufacturing sector continues to be an engine of economic growth in most developing countries. This article surveys the evidence on the determinants of industry location in developing countries. It also employs micro data for India and Indonesia to illustrate recent spatial dynamics of manufacturing relocation within urban agglomerations. Both theory and empirical evidence suggest that agglomeration benefits, market access, and infrastructure endowments in large cities outweigh the costs of congestion, higher wages, and land prices. Despite this evidence, many countries have tried to encourage industrial firms to locate in secondary cities or other lagging areas. Cross-country evidence suggests that fiscal incentives to do so rarely succeed. They appear to influence business location decisions among comparable locations, but the result may be a negative-sum game between regions and inefficiently low tax rates, which prevent public goods from being funded at sufficiently high levels. Relocation tends to be within and between agglomerations rather than from large cities to smaller cities or lagging regions. Rather than provide subsidies and tax breaks, policymakers should focus on streamlining laws and regulations to make the business environment more attractive. Copyright The Author 2008. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / the world bank . All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org, Oxford University Press.'] [" This paper argues that the contribution of trade preferences to economic development needs to be reappraised in light of the growth of globalised trade in manufactures. Trade preferences may be able to act as a catalyst for manufacturing exports, leading to rapid growth in exports and employment. To do so, preferences need to be designed to be consistent with international trade in fragmented 'tasks' (as opposed to complete products) and need to be open to countries with sufficient levels of complementary inputs such as skills and infrastructure. Recent experience with the African Growth and Opportunities Act shows that, in the right conditions, Sub-Saharan African countries have had large manufacturing export supply response to trade preferences. Copyright 2007 The Authors Journal compilation Blackwell Publishing Ltd ."] [' There is a substantial empirical literature quantifying the positive relationship between city size and productivity. This paper studies the implications of that relationship for evaluations of urban transport improvements. A theoretical model is developed and used to derive a cost-benefit measure that includes the impact of transport improvements on city size and hence on the productivity of new and existing city workers. The size of such effects is illustrated in a simple computable equilibrium model. It is argued that these productivity effects, particularly when combined with distortionary taxation, are quantitatively important, substantially increasing the gains attributable to urban transport improvements. \xc2\xa9 2007 LSE and the University of Bath'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Recent decades have seen momentous changes in the economic geography of the world. Political transitions and economic liberalization have brought formerly closed countries into the world economy. Such changes have challenged our understanding of the location of economic activity and of the determinants of changes in the pattern of location. ; In a presentation at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City\xe2\x80\x99s 2006 economic symposium, \xe2\x80\x9cThe New Economic Geography: Effects and Policy Implications,\xe2\x80\x9d Venables explored how a new economic geography perspective provides a number of additional insights into existing patterns of activity and into the forces driving future changes. ; His discussion focused on three key propositions. First, proximity to other economic agents\xe2\x80\x94workers, consumers, and firms\xe2\x80\x94is good for productivity. Second, large income disparities are a perfectly natural outcome of a world in which proximity matters. And, third, the effects of increased trade are potentially ambiguous\xe2\x80\x94there are circumstances in which cheaper spatial interactions cause inequality, not convergence.'] ['This paper uses NUTS3 sub-regional data for Great Britain to analyse the determinants of spatial variations in income and productivity. We decompose the spatial variation of earnings into a productivity effect and an occupational composition effect. For the former (but not the latter) we find a robust relationship with proximity to economic mass, suggesting that doubling the population of working age proximate to an area is associated with a 3.5% increase in productivity in the area. We measure proximity by travel time, and show that effects decline steeply with time, ceasing to be important beyond approximately 80 minutes.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" In this paper we develop a framework to assess the economic impact of foreign investment projects. If investment projects interact with other industries in the host economy, either by buying inputs locally or by selling their own product to local downstream firms, they can create sectoral linkages. The expansion of upstream and downstream industries can feed back to the project's own industry leading to a further expansion of the local industry. We study the circumstances under which investment projects lead to the creation of sectoral linkages and characterize the factors that determine the project's welfare impact. We link analytical findings to case studies undertaken for the EBRD. Copyright (c) The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 2005."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Spatial inequality in developing countries is due to the natural advantages of some regions relative to others and to the presence of agglomeration forces, leading to clustering of activity. This paper reviews and develops some simple models that capture these first and second nature economic geographies. The presence of increasing returns to scale in cities leads to urban structures that are not optimally sized. This depresses the return to job creation, possibly retarding development. Looking at the wider regional structure, development can be associated with large shifts in the location of activity as industry goes from being inward looking to being export oriented. Copyright 2005, Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper estimates a structural model of economic geography using cross-country data on per capita income, bilateral trade, and the relative price of manufacturing goods. More than 70% of the variation in per capita income can be explained by the geography of access to markets and to sources of supply of intermediate inputs. These results are robust to the inclusion of other geographical, social, and institutional characteristics. The estimated coefficients are consistent with plausible values for the structural parameters of the model. We find quantitatively important effects of distance, access to the coast, and openness on levels of per capita income.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" This paper studies the size and number of industrial clusters that arise in a multi-country world in which one sector has a propensity to cluster because of increasing returns to scale. Equilibrium will generally have smaller clusters than the world welfare optimum, and possibly too many countries with a cluster. Countries have an incentive to use policy to attract an industrial cluster, but the equilibrium of the policy game between governments coincides with the world optimum so there is no 'race to the bottom'. Capping subsidy rates would lead to a proliferation of too many and too small clusters. Copyright (c) The London School of Economics and Political Science 2004."] [' This paper argues that existing models of urban concentrations are incomplete unless grounded in the most fundamental aspect of proximity; face-to-face contact. Face-to-face contact has four main features: it is an efficient communication technology; it can help solve incentive problems; it can facilitate socialization and learning; and it provides psychological motivation. We discuss each of these features in turn, and develop formal economic models of two of them. Face-to-face is particularly important in environments where information is imperfect, rapidly changing, and not easily codified, key features of many creative activities. Copyright 2004, Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Monetary union is likely to change the spatial structure of economic activity in the EU. This article reviews what is known about these effects and discusses the implications for EMU. We argue that EMU is likely to promote a modest increase in specialization amongst EU countries, although industry-specific shocks are sufficiently small for this not to pose further difficulties for macroeconomic management. Improvements in market access are likely to raise income levels in insiders relative to outsiders. Taking a very long-term view, the urban structure of the EU might be expected to become more polarized, developing a steeper size distribution. Copyright (c) Blackwell Publishing Ltd 2003.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" R ICE P. and V ENABLES A. J. (2003) Equilibrium regional disparities: theory and British evidence, Reg. Studies 37 , 675-686. Regional inequalities in many countries, including the UK, are large and persistent. They show up in a number of economic variables, most of them endogenous, making it difficult for the researcher to identify the underlying causes of the disparities. This paper uses sub-regional data for Great Britain to identify spatial patterns of disparities. It then compares these patterns with those predicted by a theoretical model under a number of alternative hypotheses about the underlying cause of the disparities. The approach lays the groundwork for theory based econometric modelling of the causes of regional inequalities. R ICE P. et V ENABLES A. J. (2003) Desequilibres regionaux: la theorie et les preuves britanniques, Reg. Studies 37 , 675-686. Dans beaucoup de pays, y compris la Grande-Bretagne, les inegalites sont importantes et persistantes. Elles se manifestent a partir de nombreuses variables economiques, dont la plupart sont endogenes, ce qui le rend difficile pour le chercheur d'identifier les causes sous-jacentes des inegalites. Cet article se sert des donnees infraregionales pour la Grande-Bretagne afin d'identifier la distribution geographique des inegalites. Puis on cherche a comparer ces distributions a celles qui sont prevues par un mode le theorique sous quelques hypotheses alternatifs sur les causes sous- jacentes des inegalites. Cette facon fait le travail pre paratoire pour une modelisation econometrique des causes des inegalites regionales basee sur des the ories. R ICE P. und V ENABLES A. J. (2003) Gleichgewicht und regionale Ungleichheiten. Theorie und Beweise aus Grossbritannien, Reg. Studies 37 , 675-686. In vielen Landern, einschliesslich des UK, gibt es grosse und anhaltende regionale Ungleichheiten. Sie treten in Form zahlreicher wirtschaftlicher Veranderlicher auf, die meisten endogen; das erschwert es dem Forscher, herauszufinden, was den Ungleichheiten zugrunde liegt. Dieser Aufsatz stutzt sich auf Daten von Teilregionen Grossbritannier's, um raumliche Muster von Ungleichheiten herauszustellen. Anschliessend werden diese Muster mit jenen verglichen, die ein theoretisches Modell von einer Anzahl alternativer Hypothesen uber die zugrunde liegenden Ursachen der Ungleichheiten vorausgesagt hatte. Der Ansatz legt den Grundstein fur auf Theorie gestutzte okonometrische Modelle der Ursachen regionaler Ungleichheiten."] [" How are the benefits and costs of a customs union divided between member countries? Outcomes depend on the comparative advantage of members, relative to each other and relative to the rest of the world. Countries with a comparative advantage between that of their partners and the rest of the world do better than countries with an 'extreme' comparative advantage. Consequently, integration between low income countries tends to lead to divergence of member country incomes, while agreements between high income countries cause convergence. Results suggest that developing countries are likely to be better served by 'north-south' than by 'south-south' agreements. Copyright 2003 Royal Economic Society."] ['This paper uses bilateral trade data for OECD countries at the 3-digit industry level to investigate the geography of intra-industry trade (IIT). IIT diminishes with distance and much of the existing empirical literature suggests that this is an inherent characteristic of such trade, arguing that trade in sectors intensive in IIT is choked off rapidly by distance. We show that the dependence of IIT on geography arises not because of any inherent feature of the effects of distance on such trade, but because of the spatial structure of countries\xe2\x80\x99 supply and demand characteristics; close countries do a lot of IIT because they have similar economic structures.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper explores the economic implications of isolation and remoteness. Evidence on the impact of distance on trade costs and trade flows is reviewed, and the effects of remoteness on real incomes are investigated. Empirical work confirms the predictions of theory, that distance from markets and sources of supply can have a significant negative impact on per capita income. The possible implications of new technologies for these spatial inequalities are discussed.'] ['The combination of distance, poor infrastructure, and being landlocked by neighbors with poor infrastructure, can make transport costs many times higher for some developing countries than for most others. Drawing on two traditions of economic modeling --Heckscher-Ohlin trade theory and von Thunen\'s work on the"isolated state"- the authors analyze the trade and production patterns of countries located at varying distances from an economic center. Predicting a country\'s production and trade pattern requires a knowledge of the country\'s location, its factor endowment, and the factor and transport intensities of goods. The authors define transport intensity and show how location and transport intensity should be combined with factor abundance and factor intensity, in determining trade flows. A theory based on only one set of those variables, such as factor abundance, will systematically make incorrect predictions. They report that geography and endowments interact in such a way that the world divides up into economic zones with different trade patterns. Countries close to the economic center may specialize in transport-intensive activities; countries further out become diversified, producing, and sometimes trading more goods; countries still further out may become import-substituting (replacing some of their imports from the center with local production); in the extreme, regions become autarkic. More remote locations have lower real incomes. Globalization changes the terms of trade, improving the welfare of regions further out from economic centers, though reducing the welfare of closer regions. Where will a new activity, such as assembly of a new product, locate? Remote locations are disadvantaged if the product has high transport intensity (perhaps because of heavy requirements for intermediate inputs). But the costs of remoteness are already incorporated into the factor prices of those regions, which makes them more attractive. Which location is chosen depe<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper analyses the industrial structure of the European Union. Our results show that from 1980 onwards, the industrial structures of EU economies have become increasingly dissimilar. In contrast, results for individual industries are more varied. Some industries have become more concentrated, while others have dispersed. Regression results suggest that both comparative advantage and economic geography forces are driving these changes. Despite these findings, a comparison with the US shows that EU industry remains less concentrated suggesting that there may be someway to go before the relocation process reaches its limit.'] ["Some writers have predicted that new technologies mean the 'death of distance', allowing suitably skilled economies to converge with high income countries. This paper evaluates this claim. It argues that geography matters for international income inequalities, and that new technologies will change, but not abolish this dependence. Some activities may become more entrenched in high income countries than they are at present. Others - where information can be readily codified and digitized - will relocate, but typically only to a subset of lower income countries. These countries will benefit, but other countries will continue to experience the costs of remoteness.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' Economic development and underdevelopment is one aspect of the uneven spatial distribution of economic activity. This paper reviews existing literature on geography and development, and argues that rigorous theoretical and empirical analysis is needed to increase understanding of the role of geography in development and to better design development policy. The analytical issues are: why does economic activity cluster in centers of activity? How do new centers develop? And what are the consequences of remoteness from existing centers? Empirical evidence comes both from the international context and from studies of internal economic geography and urbanization. Copyright 2001 by Oxford University Press.'] ['We consider a trade model combining a 2x2x2 Heckscher-Ohlin structure, monopolistic competition, transport costs, and multinational corporations. We demonstrate how the mix of national and multinational firms that operate in equilibrium depends on technology and on the division of the world endowment between countries. Multinationals are more likely to exist the more similar are countries in both relative and absolute endowments. Where multinationals exist they reduce the volume of trade and raise world welfare (although not necessarily that of both countries). They also reduce the agglomeration forces that arise when international factor mobility is allowed.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper analyzes a model of economic development in which international differences in industrial structure and income are caused by the agglomeration of industry in a subset of countries. Economic development may not be a gradual process of convergence by all countries but instead involve countries moving sequentially from the group of poor countries to the group of rich countries. The role of trade policy in promoting industrialization is studied. While both import substitution and unilateral trade liberalization may be successful in attracting industry, they attract different sectors and welfare levels are higher under trade liberalization.'] ['This comment on Gallup, Sachs, and Mellinger welcomes their research on economic geography and calls for further work to identify the underlying sources of geographical advantage and disadvantage.'] [' We consider a model with a large number of industries and agglomeration forces which cause each industry to concentrate in a single country. We show that the division of industries between countries is not unique, and that identical countries might have different numbers of industries and different wages and real incomes. Countries may gain by using policy to grab a higher proportion of world industry. Bounds on the set of equilibrium divisions of industry are found and we show how, with Ricardian differences in technology, there are equilibria with industries locating in the country where they have a comparative disadvantage. Copyright 1999 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics.'] ['How does an FDI project affect local firms in the same industry? Competition in the" product and factor markets tends to reduce profits of local firms, but linkage effects to supplier" industries may reduce input costs and raise profits. This paper develops an analytical framework" to assess these effects. Circumstances in which FDI is complementary to local industry are" established, and it is shown how FDI may lead to the establishment of local industrial sectors. " These sectors may grow to the point where local production overtakes and forces out FDI plants. " Our results are consistent with the experience of a number of industrial sectors in the NICs."<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This article outlines a new approach for analyzing the role of trade in promoting industrial development. It offers an explanation as to why firms are reluctant to move to countries with lower labor costs and shows how trade liberalization can change the incentives for firms to locate in developing countries. It models economic development as the spread of concentrations of firms from country to country. Different trading arrangements may have a major impact on this development process. By changing the attractiveness of countries as a base for manufacturing production, they can potentially trigger--or postpone--industrial development. The analysis shows that unilaterally liberalizing imports of manufactures can promote industrialization but that membership in a preferential trading arrangement is likely to create larger gains. South-South preferential trading arrangements will be sensitive to the market size of member states, while North-South arrangements seem to offer better prospects for participating southern countries, if not for excluded countries. Copyright 1998 by Oxford University Press.'] [' This paper gives an overview of different analyses of the effects of globalization on industrial location. It suggests that comparative advantage is inadequate to explain several aspects of the changing patterns of trade and location, and that it needs to supplemented by approaches based on new economic geography and theories of cumulative causation. Copyright 1998 by Oxford University Press.'] ["A model is constructed in which multinational firms may arise endogenously. Multinationals exist in equilibrium when transport and tariff costs are high, incomes are high, and firm-level scale economies are important relative to plant-level scale economies. Less obvious, multinationals are more important in total economic activity when countries are more similar in incomes, relative factor endowments, and technologies. The model may thus be useful in explaining several stylized facts, including (a) the growing importance of direct investment relative to trade among the developed countries over time and (b) the greater ratio of investment to trade among the developed countries relative to this ratio for 'north-south' or 'south-south' economic relationships. The model offers predictions about the volume of trade that contrast with those of the 'new trade theory', predicting that trade at first rises and then falls as countries converge in incomes, relative endowments, and technologies. Welfare is also considered, and it is shown that direct investment makes the smaller (or high cost) country better off, but may make the larger (or low cost) country worse off.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['This paper considers the location effects of geographically discriminatory trade policy. A preferential move towards a customs union pulls industry into the integrating countries. When internal barriers fall below some critical level, input-output links between imperfectly competitive firms lead some customs union countries to gain industry at the expense of others. A hub- and-spoke arrangement favours location in the hub, with better reciprocal access induces agglomeration in the hub and may trigger disparities between the spokes.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" The observation of an increase in the ratio of skilled to unskilled wages in the high-income countries and in some cases in low/middle-income countries has led to considerable discussion and controversy as to its cause. Virtually none of the analyses have considered a role for multinational investment in explaining the wage-gap phenomenon. This paper adapts the authors' earlier work to consider what role multinationals might play in factor markets. It identifies circumstances under which investment liberalization is likely to raise the wage gap in both the skilled-labor abundant and the unskilled-labor abundant country. Copyright 1997 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd."] [' There are two imperfectly competitive industries, upstream and downstream, and two locations. Where do the industries locate? Production occurs in both locations when transport costs are high (industry must be close to consumers) or low (factor prices determine location). Imperfect competition and transport costs create forward and backward linkages between upstream and downstream industries, and at intermediate transport costs these linkages determine location. There are multiple equilibria, some with agglomeration in a single location. Reducing transport costs from high to intermediate causes agglomeration and divergence of economic structure and income; further reductions may undermine the agglomeration, bringing convergence. Copyright 1996 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] ['This paper describes the spread of industry from country to country as a region grows. All industrial sectors are initially agglomerated in one country, tied together by input-output links between firms. Growth expands industry more than other sectors, bidding up wages in the country in which industry is clustered. At some point some firms start to move away, and when a critical mass is reached industry expands in another country, raising wages there. We establish the circumstance sin which industry spill over, which sectors move out first, and which are more important in triggering a critical mass.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Foreign direct investment into transition economies is reviewed in detail, both from aggregate data and from a survey of senior managers in 117 western manufacturing companies. It is found that host country transition progress, political stability and perceived risk influence FDI inflows as well as the predominant type of investment. Copyright 1996 The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper reviews recent literature on the spatial agglomeration of economic activity. This literature provides new ways of thinking about the determinants of the location of production, of trade flows, and of international income differences. Agglomeration of activity arises out of the tension between product-market and factor-market competition - which encourage a dispersed pattern of location - and externalities between firms (technological or pecuniary) which promote agglomeration. Using a framework in which intermediate goods create forward and backward linkages, the paper shows how economic integration may cause agglomeration, and then discusses the implications of this for real income and for economic policy. Copyright 1996 by Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The paper considers the equilibrium location of two industries in two countries. Both industries are imperfectly competitive and produce goods which are used in final consumption and as intermediates by firms in the same industry. Intermediate usage creates cost and demand linkages between firms and a tendency for agglomeration of each industry. When trade barriers are high the equilibrium involves division of both industries between both locations in order to meet the final demands of consumers. At lower trade barriers agglomeration forces dominate and the equilibrium involves specialization, with each industry concentrated in a single location. Economic integration may induce specialization. The paper studies the simple dynamics of the model and demonstrates that during the adjustment process a sizeable proportion of the labour force may suffer lower real wages as relocation of industry occurs, although there are long-run gains from integration.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' A monopolistically competitive manufacturing sector produces goods used for final consumption and as intermediates. Intermediate usage creates cost and demand linkages between firms and a tendency for manufacturing agglomeration. How does globalization affect the location of manufacturing and gains from trade? At high transport costs all countries have some manufacturing, but when transport costs fall below a critical value, a core-periphery spontaneously forms and nations that find themselves in the periphery suffer a decline in real income. At sill lower transport costs there is convergence of real incomes in which peripheral nations gain and core nations may lose. Copyright 1995, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The authors consider a Heckscher-Ohlin model in which goods and factors of production can be traded but trade involves transactions costs. Goods trade alone will not equalize factor prices, so there is an incentive for factors to move internationally. The authors characterize equilibria in which there is no trade, goods trade only, factor movement only, and both trade in goods and factor movement. This generalizes the Heckscher-Ohlin model to explain not only the direction of trade but also the prior question of what gets traded, i.e., how goods and factors are partitioned into tradeables and nontradeables. Copyright 1995 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The authors study interactions between goods trade and international factor mobility in a context suggestive of transition in Central and Eastern Europe. If complementarities between skilled labor and capital are strong--e.g., owing to externalities between skilled labor and costs of absorbing capital inflow--then there are multiple rational expectations equilibria. The 'virtuous' transition path has capital inflow and little emigration; the 'vicious' path involves significant emigration and little capital inflow. The equilibrium transition path is not socially optimal even absent externalities. Externalities associated with skilled labor increase the case for intervention; policy should be used to delete the vicious equilibrium. Copyright 1994 by The London School of Economics and Political Science."] [' This paper analyzes trade policy in an integrated market in which two firms are price competitors. If tariff or export subsidies are in place, there is no equilibrium in pure strategies. The import tariffs and export subsidies give one firm a price advantage in one market. The effect of this is to reduce the incentive, usually a characteristic of price competition, to undercut prices. This reduction in the intensity of competition means that import tariffs may be overshifted and that an export subsidy raises consumer prices in both countries. Copyright 1994 by Royal Economic Society.'] [" Although models with factor price equalization are used frequently in both theoretical and applied research in international economics, only sufficient conditions for factor price equalization have been presented in the literature. In this paper, the authors present necessary and sufficient conditions for factor price equalization under quite general assumptions about the technologies of different countries. The necessary and sufficient conditions they derive are consistent with joint production, decreasing returns to scale, and substantive differences in the technologies and endowments of different countries. The authors' results enable them to reconcile the classical approach and the integrated equilibrium approach to factor price equalization. Copyright 1993 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper investigates the effect of exchange rate variations on the equilibrium of an industry in which domestic firms are competing with foreign suppliers. The paper is designed as an expository survey. It discusses the perfectly competitive industry; exchange rate pass through under imperfect competition; entry, exit and hysteresis with fixed costs and exchange rate uncertainty. Copyright 1990 by Oxford University Press.'] ["A series of models are developed in which international trade is modelled as a two-stage game between firms in two countries. At the first stage firms choose their productive capacity. At the second stage different types of market game are played. The most interesting case is that in which firms play a separate price game in each national market, given their worldwide capacity levels. It is established that (i) firms use capacity strategically, in order to manipulate the distribution of rivals' output between markets; (ii) the volume of intra-industry trade is intermediate between the two cases most extensively studied in the trade literature (integrated- and segmented-market Cournot equilibria); and (iii) countries gain from small import tariffs and export subsidies, but these gains are less than in the case of segmented markets and a Cournot equilibrium.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['A number of recent papers reach different conclusions concerning the effects of trade and industrial policy on imperfectly competitive industries; the implications for policy are therefore sensitive to assumptions concerning both firm behaviour and market structure. This paper sets out a single model within which policy can be examined under a variety of assumptions concerning market structures. The results obtained from this model can be compared to results already obtained in the literature, and the model allows further analysis of some interesting cases. We consider the four types of market structure generated by oligopoly versus free entry, and segmented markets versus integrated markets. By employing simple functional forms we are able to make direct comparisons between these cases. We conclude that the effects of trade and industrial policies are greater when markets are segmented than when they are integrated, and that, if transport costs are small, policy is more potent when the number of firms is fixed than when there is free entry.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["This paper studies the effects of changes in the internal market of the European Community in a partial equilibrium model of imperfect competition with economies of scale. The model is numerically calibrated to data on ten industries and the effects of two types of policy change are simulated. The first is a reduction in intra-EC trade barriers equivalent to a reduction in implicit tariffs by 2.5 percentage points; the second is the elimination of firms' ability to price-discriminate between different national markets. Sensitivity analysis of alternative ways of modelling firms' behavior suggests that the results are reasonably robust. The simple reduction in intra-EC trade barriers generates modest welfare gains, but much more substantial gains are associated with integration of national markets into a single European market.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' This paper develops a model of international trade between economies which each contain a monopolistically-competitive industry producing differentiated products under increasing returns to scale. Firms have larger shares in their domestic market than in their export market and the implications of these uneq ual market shares for the pattern of trade and welfare are examined. Tariff policy and industrial policy are studied, and it is establishe d that a country can increase its welfare both by import tariffs and by subsidies to domestic firms. Copyright 1987 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']