 ['At high enough greenhouse gas concentrations, climate change might conceivably cause catastrophic damages with small but non-negligible probabilities. If the bad tail of climate damages is sufficiently fat, and if the coefficient of relative risk aversion is greater than one, the catastrophe-reducing insurance aspect of mitigation investments could in theory have a strong influence on raising the social cost of carbon. In this paper I exposit the influence of fat tails on climate change economics in a simple stark formulation focused on the social cost of carbon. I then attempt to place the basic underlying issues within a balanced perspective.'] ['It is difficult to resolve the global warming free-rider externality problem by negotiating n different quantity targets. By contrast, negotiating a single internationally binding minimum carbon price &amp;lpar;the proceeds from which are domestically retained&amp;rpar; counters self-interest by incentivizing agents to internalize the externality. The model of this article indicates an exact sense in which each agent\xe2\x80\x99s extra cost from a higher emissions price is counterbalanced by that agent\xe2\x80\x99s extra benefit from inducing all other agents to simultaneously lower their emissions in response to the higher price. Some implications are discussed. While the study is centered on a formal model, the tone of the policy discussion resembles more an exploratory think piece.'] [' Suppose that there is a probability density function for how bad things might get, but that the overall rate at which this probability density function slims down to approach zero in the tail is uncertain. The paper shows how a basic precautionary principle of tail fattening could then apply. The worse is the contemplated damage, the more should a decision maker consider the bad tail to be among the relatively fatter-tailed possibilities. A rough numerical example is applied to the uncertain tail distribution of climate sensitivity. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2013'] ['The choice of an overall discount rate for climate change investments depends critically on how different components of investment payoffs are discounted at differing rates reflecting their underlying risk characteristics. Such underlying rates can vary enormously, from ?1 percent for idiosyncratic diversifiable risk to ?7 percent for systematic nondiversifiable risk. Which risk-adjusted rate is chosen can have a huge impact on cost-benefit analysis. In this expository paper, I attempt to set forth in accessible language with a simple linear model what I think are some of the basic issues involved in discounting climate risks. The paper introduces a new concept that may be relevant for climate-change discounting: the degree to which an investment hedges against the bad tail of catastrophic damages by insuring positive expected payoffs even under the worst circumstances. The prototype application is calculating the social cost of carbon.'] [' The long term discount rate is critically dependent upon projections of future growth rates that are fuzzier in proportion to the remoteness of the time horizon. This paper models such increasing fuzziness as an evolving hidden-state stochastic process. The underlying trend growth rate is an unobservable random walk hidden by noisy transitory shocks and recoverable only as a probability distribution via Bayesian updating. A simple expression is derived for the time-declining Ramsey discount rate. The components of this hidden-state Ramsey discounting formula are then analyzed, followed by a few remarks about possible implications and applications. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media B.V. 2012'] ['A critical issue in climate change economics is the specification of the so-called \xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xc5\x93damages function\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac and its interaction with the unknown uncertainty of catastrophic outcomes. This paper asks how much we might be misled by our economic assessment of climate change when we employ a conventional quadratic damages function and/or a thin-tailed probability distribution for extreme temperatures. The paper gives some numerical examples of the indirect value of various greenhouse gas (GHG) concentration targets as insurance against catastrophic climate change temperatures and damages. These numerical exercises suggest that we might be underestimating considerably the welfare losses from uncertainty by using a quadratic damages function and/or a thin-tailed temperature distribution. In these examples, the primary reason for keeping GHG levels down is to insure against high-temperature catastrophic climate risks.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' In this article, I revisit some basic issues concerning structural uncertainty and catastrophic climate change. My target audience here are general economists, so this article could also be viewed as a somewhat less technical exposition that supplements my previous work. Using empirical examples, I argue that it is implausible that low-probability, high-negative impact events would not much influence an economic analysis of climate change. I then try to integrate the empirical examples and the theory together into a unified package with a unified message that the possibility of catastrophic climate change needs to be taken seriously. Copyright 2011, Oxford University Press.'] ['The so-called "Weitzman-Gollier puzzle" is the fact that two seemingly symmetric and equally plausible ways of dealing with uncertain future discount rates appear to give diametrically opposed results. The puzzle is resolved when agents optimize their consumption plans. The long run discount rate declines over time toward its lowest possible value.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The existing literature on climate change offers little guidance on why one specification or another of a "damages function" has been selected. Ideally, one wants a functional form that captures reality adequately, yet is analytically sufficiently tractable to yield useful results. This paper gives two plausible risk aversion axioms that a reduced form utility function of temperature change and the capacity to produce consumption might reasonably be required to satisfy. These axioms indicate that the standard-practice multiplicative specification of disutility damages from global warming, as well as its additive analogue, are special cases of this paper\'s theoretically derived utility function. Empirically, the paper gives some numerical examples demonstrating the surprisingly strong implications for economic policy of the distinction between additive and multiplicative disutility damages.'] ['It is widely recognized that the economics of distant-future events, like climate change, is critically dependent upon the choice of a discount rate. Unfortunately, it is unclear how to discount distant-future events when the future discount rate itself is unknown. In previous work, an analytically-tractable approach called "gamma discounting" was proposed, which gave a declining discount rate schedule as a simple closed-form function of time. This paper extends the previous gamma approach by using a Ramsey optimal growth model, combined with uncertainty about future productivity, in order to "risk adjust" all probabilities by marginal utility weights. Some basic numerical examples are given, which suggest that the overall effect of risk-adjusted gamma discounting on lowering distant-future discount rates may be significant. The driving force is a "fear factor" from risk aversion to permanent productivity shocks representing catastrophic future states of the world.'] ['This paper in applied theory argues that there is a loose chain of reasoning connecting the following three basic links in the economics of climate change: 1) additive disutility damages may be appropriate for analyzing some impacts of global warming; 2) an uncertain feedback-forcing coefficient, which might be near one with infinitesimal probability, can cause the distribution of the future time trajectory of global temperatures to have fat tails and a high variance; 3) when high-variance additive damages are discounted at an uncertain rate of pure time preference, which might be near zero with infinitesimal probability, it can make expected present discounted disutility very large. Some possible implications for welfare analysis and climate-change policy are briefly noted.'] [' With climate change as prototype example, this paper analyzes the implications of structural uncertainty for the economics of low-probability, high-impact catastrophes. Even when updated by Bayesian learning, uncertain structural parameters induce a critical "tail fattening" of posterior-predictive distributions. Such fattened tails have strong implications for situations, like climate change, where a catastrophe is theoretically possible because prior knowledge cannot place sufficiently narrow bounds on overall damages. This paper shows that the economic consequences of fat-tailed structural uncertainty (along with unsureness about high-temperature damages) can readily outweigh the effects of discounting in climate-change policy analysis. Copyright by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['The Stern Review calls for immediate decisive action to stabilize greenhouse gases because "the benefits of strong, early action on climate change outweighs the costs." The economic analysis supporting this conclusion consists mostly of two basic strands. The first strand is a formal aggregative model that relies for its conclusions primarily upon imposing a very low discount rate. Concerning this discount-rate aspect, I am skeptical of the Review \'s formal analysis, but this essay points out that we are actually a lot less sure about what interest rate should be used for discounting climate change than is commonly acknowledged. The Review \'s second basic strand is a more intuitive argument that it might be very important to avoid possibly large uncertainties that are difficult to quantify. Concerning this uncertainty aspect, I argue that it might be recast into sound analytical reasoning that might justify some of the Review \'s conclusions. The basic issue here is that spending money to slow global warming should perhaps not be conceptualized primarily as being about consumption smoothing as much as being about how much insurance to buy to offset the small change of a ruinous catastrophe that is difficult to compensate by ordinary savings.'] ['In textbook expositions of the equity-premium, riskfree-rate and equity-volatility puzzles, agents are sure of the economy\'s structure while growth rates are normally distributed. But because of parameter uncertainty the thin-tailed normal distribution conditioned on realized data becomes a thick-tailed Student-t distribution, which changes the entire nature of what is considered "puzzling" by reversing every inequality discrepancy needing to be explained. This paper shows that Bayesian updating of unknown structural parameters inevitably adds a permanent tail-thickening effect to posterior expectations. The expected-utility ramifications of this for asset pricing are strong, work against the puzzles, and are very sensitive to subjective prior beliefs\xe2\x80\x94even with asymptotically infinite data. (JEL D84, G12)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' A kind of "unified theory" is proposed as a dynamic generalization of the standard consumer-surplus methodology for evaluating welfare changes. The "unified theory" allows rigorous dynamic welfare comparisons to be inferred between any two economic situations--from just knowing current incomes and observing a short-run market demand schedule. Essentially, the change in present discounted future utility is exactly captured by the formula: difference in current income plus consumer surplus. This well-known formula is thereby shown to cover a far wider class of welfare comparisons than is customarily treated in the textbook static case. Copyright 2001 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics.'] [" The point of departure for this paper is the familiar prototype fisheriesmodel where a fictitious sole owner harvests a fish population to maximizepresent discounted profits. The paper answers analytically the followingquestion. ``What happens to a policy when the sole owner also valuesbiodiversity, as well as profits?'' It turns out that the size of the steady-state stock and the number of species preserved are both higher, whenspecies diversity is positively valued. This paper provides a sharpcharacterization of the optimal policy in terms of the usual economicparameters and an exogenously introduced willingness-to-pay function forspecies preservation. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 2001"] ['By incorporating the probability distribution directly into the analysis, this paper proposes a new theoretical approach to resolving the perennial dilemma of being uncertain about what discount rate to use in cost-benefit analysis. A numerical example is constructed from the results of a survey based on the opinions of 2,160 economists. The main finding is that even if every individual believes in a constant discount rate, the wide spread of opinion on what it should be makes the effective social discount rate decline significantly over time. Implications and ramifications of this proposed "gamma-discounting" approach are discussed.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['For guidance in determining which items should be included in comprehensive NDP and how they should be included, reference is often made to the linearized Hamiltonian from an optimal growth problem. This note shows how the heuristic linearized-Hamiltonian argument can be given a rigorous welfare justification in terms of a money-metric utility function that is "naturally normalized" to be conformable with consumption at the time, of measurement. The implied normalization is of the same type as is required to interpret the "area under the demand curve" as a constant-dollar-denominated true measure of consumer\'s surplus. The concept of the "sustainability-equivalence principle" is explained, and is indicated why this principle is of basic importance for the theory of national income accounting.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' There is a long-standing trade-off in bioculture between concentrating on high-yield varieties and maintaining sufficient diversity to lower the risks of catastrophic infection. The paper uses a simple ecology-based model of endogenous disease to indicate how a local decision to plant more of a widely grown crop creates negative externalities by increasing the probability that new pathogens will evolve to attack the crop globally. Society\'s basic issue concerns where to locate on an efficiency frontier between economic profitability and a standard formula for ecological entropy - proved here to be a rigorous measure of "generalized resistance" to crop-ecosystem failure. \xc2\xa9 2000 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] [" This paper evaluates the loss of global welfare from exhaustion of nonrenewable resources, such as oil. The underlying methodology represents an empirical application of some recent developments in the theory of green accounting and sustainability. The paper estimates that the world loses the equivalent of about 1 percent of final consumption per year from finiteness of the earth's resources, compared with a counterfactual trajectory where global extraction of minerals is allowed to remain forever constant at today's flow rates and extraction costs. \xc2\xa9 2000 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper is about the economic theory of biodiversity preservation. A cost-effectiveness methodology is constructed, which results in a ranking criterion sufficiently operational to be useful in suggesting what to look at when determining actual conservation priorities. The formula is firmly rooted in a mathematically rigorous optimization framework, so that its theoretical underpinnings are clear. The underlying model, called the 'Noah's Ark Problem,' is intended to be a kind of canonical form that hones down to its analytical essence the problem of best preserving diversity under a limited budget constraint."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The purpose of this article is to examine the preservation of biodiversity as an economic problem. Using a very simple prototype model, the authors discuss how to include diversity in the objective function and how to develop a simple cost-benefit ranking criterion for ordering priorities. Then they analyze data on endangered species preservation decisions in the United States to shed light on the conformity of theory with practice. A basic theme is that the core issue in biodiversity preservation today is the fuzziness of the objective function.'] [" This paper attempts to provide microfoundations for the knowledge production function in an idea-based growth model. Production of new ideas is made a function of newly reconfigured old ideas in the spirit of the way an agricultural research station develops improved plant varieties by cross-pollinating existing plant varieties. The model shows how knowledge can build upon itself in a combinatoric feedback process that may have significant implications for economic growth. The paper's main theme is that the ultimate limits to growth lie not so much in our ability to generate new ideas as in our ability to process an abundance of potentially new ideas into usable form. \xc2\xa9 2000 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" A rigorous model connects together the following three basic concepts: (1) 'sustainability'--measuring the generalized future power of an economy to consume over time; (2) 'green NNP'--meaning a current measure of national income that subtracts off from GNP not just depreciation of capital but also, more generally, depletion of environmental assets evaluated at current efficiency prices; and (3) 'technological progress'--meaning a projection onto the future of the so-called 'Solow residual.' A simple general formula is derived. Some crude calculations suggest a possibly strong effect of the residual, which hints that the author's best present estimates of long-term sustainability may be largely driven by predictions of future technological progress. Copyright 1997 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper analyzes statistically the main determinants of government decisions about the preservation of endangered species. As explanatory variables, we use proxies that include \'scientific\' species characteristics, such as "degree of endangerment" and "taxonomic uniqueness" as well as \'visceral\' characteristics, such as "physical size" and the degree to which a species is considered a "higher form of life." These proxies are used to study the government\'s protection and spending decisions on individual species. Overall, we find that the role of visceral characteristics is much greater than the role of scientific characteristics.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" In the model of monopolistic competition on the circle, a product is identified by a single locational characteristic representing its brand or variety. The ability of a variety to compete with other varieties a given distance away (its specialization as quantified by transportation losses) is exogenously given in the standard model. Here, specialization is a choice variable selected by the firm. An equilibrium is derived, where the degree of specialization is endogenously determined. The effect of endogenizing specialization makes the Hotelling-Lancaster-Chamberlin model of monopolistic competition isomorphic to the Dixit-Stiglitz-Ethier formulation, without sacrificing the appealing concept of product 'distance.' Copyright 1994 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited."] ['This paper concerns the paradoxes and dilemmas that the very successful "Chinese model" presents for transition theory. The "Chinese model" is centered on the development of township-village enterprises. The main purpose of this paper is to make the case that TVE\'s are not just some form of disguised capitalist institution; they are much better described as "vaguely defined cooperatives" - meaning an essentially communal organization extremely far removed from having well defined ownership structure. That a transition strategy based on vaguely defined cooperatives should be so successful presents a severe challenge for traditional property theory. We speculate that to address this challenge properly, traditional property rights should be extended by including a dimension corresponding to the degree of individualism/cooperation existing in a society. A model of the required extension is described. Implications and application are discussed.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper attempts to demonstrate how "diversity theory" can be applied to the analysis of real-world conservation policies. The specific example chosen to serve as a paradigm concern s preservation priorities among the fifteen species of cranes living w ild throughout the world. The example is sufficiently actual to show how diversity theory can be used operationally to frame certain critical conservation questions and to guide us toward answers by providing informative quantitative indicators of what to protect. At the same time, the cranes example is rich enough that it illustrates nicely some broad general principles about the economics of diversity preservation. Copyright 1993, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [' An oft-repeated goal in many contexts is the "preservation of diversity." But what is the diversity function to be optimized? This paper shows how a reasonable measure of the "value of diversity" of a collection of objects can be recursively generated from more fundamental information about the dissimilarity-distance between any pair of objects in the set. The diversity function is shown to satisfy a basic dynamic programming equation, which in a well-defined sense generates an optimal classification scheme. A surprisingly rich theory of diversity emerges, having ramifications for several disciplines. Implications and applications are discussed. Copyright 1992, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [' The model of this paper generalizes the classical theory of consumer behavior to the more general case of prices that are not necessarily market-clearing. Suppose that, in addition to the money cost, some sort of search, waiting, or other quasi-fixed "effort cost" is needed to obtain goods. The presence of this quasi-fixed cost element will trigger an inventory policy. A shortage equilibrium occurs when effort costs are such that, in the corresponding inventory policy, the flow of desired consumption does not exceed the available supply flow. Stock hoarding, a critical phenomenon in the economics of shortage, emerges as a natural component of this model. A complete characterization of a stationary shortage equilibrium is given. Comparative statics and welfare analysis are performed. The dynamic transition between steady states is analyzed to give insight into the mechanics of how shortages develop. Copyright 1991 by American Economic Association.'] [' Job market segmentation refers to the idea that there tends to be a correlation among high wages, high productivity, high capital intensity, high value added, few quits relative to layoffs, and low labor turnover. This paper develops a model of wage dispersion and job market segmentation based on the very sparce assumption that the only departure from a strictly orthodox neoclassical world consists of wages being sticky in the short run. Implications of the model are explored and discussed. Copyright 1989, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [" A canonical price-normalized form is proposed as a generalization of the ordinary consumer's surplus expression commonly used to evaluate changes in economic wel fare. This familiar-looking formula, it is proved, can be rigorously interpreted as representing the first- and second-order terms of a Ta ylor-series expansion for the equivalent-variation or willingness-to- pay function of a single consumer. In principle, the lowly consumer's surplus triangle-and-rectangle methodology can be rigorously defende d as an exact approximation to a theoretically meaningful measure as long as prices are appropriately deflated. The appropriate price defl ator is derived, and some implications are discussed. Copyright 1988, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper demonstrates how asymmetric treatment of high-seniority "insider" workers and non-tenured "outsiders" gives rise to bad macroeconomic st eady states in a wage economy. The framework uses a Nash bargaining solution where workers may bargain over pay but firms control hiring. Profit sharing is then considered as an alternative payment mechanism having the automatically corrective incentive property that employers want to hire more outsiders. Given the assumptions of the model, it is shown that widespread profit sharing results in lower unemployment and more output even though it is individually rational for insiders to prefer wages over profit shares. Copyright 1987 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['Japan has a relatively unique system of labor compensation. Most Japanese workers are paid large bonuses twice a year. This paper examines the cyclical movement of bonuses compared with wages and the relation of bonuses to employment in the context of the Weitzman "share economy." The paper makes three basic points:(1) The Japanese bonus is much more pro-cyclical than Japanese base wages,but not as cyclically variable as profits. Bonuses can be interpreted as containing a quantitatively significant revenue or profit-sharing component.(2) Bonuses have quite different employment consequences than do base wages. Even after controlling for other economic factors, bonuses are positively related to employment, whereas base wages are negatively related to employment.(3) The bonus system of paying workers, while far from explaining the whole macroeconomic story in Japan, seems to play a role in helping to stabilize Japanese unemployment at comparatively low levels.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The basic point of this article is that a "crash program" mentality leads to inappropriate questions and wrong answers about policy issues in large-scale government subsidized research, like the development of synfuels. R&amp;D; funding should be viewed as a sequential decision, not a once-and-for-all choice. Using some new results in the theory of information gathering, we apply an operational sequential methodology to analyze whether the U.S. government should subsidize the development of liquid synthetic fuels from coal.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The use of current performance as a partial basis for setting future targets is an almost universal feature of economic planning. This "ratchet principle," as it is sometimes called, creates a dynamic incentive problem for the enterprise. Higher rewards from better current performance must be weighed against the future assignment of more ambitious targets. In this paper I formulate the problem of the enterprise as a multiperiod stochastic optimization model incorporating an explicit feedback mechanism for target setting. I show that an optimal solution is easily characterized, and that the incentive effects of the ratchet principle can be fully analyzed in simple economic terms.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Using a simple formal model, the present paper analyzes under what conditions the price system or crude rationing is more effective in matching up the limited supply of a deficit commodity with those users who need it most. The answer depends in a well-defined way on the distribution of needs and income. Other things being equal, the price system has greater comparative effectiveness in sorting out the deficit commodity and in getting it to those who need it most when wants are more widely dispersed or when the society is relatively egalitarian in its income distribution. Conversely, rationing is more effective as needs for the deficit commodity are more uniform or as there is greater income inequality.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Suppose y is a "performance indicator" for an enterprise. As examples, y might stand for output, profits, cost savings, or factor productivity. With standard piecework reward systems the manager of an enterprise will try to convince his superiors that y is likely to be small, thereby entitling him to a lower target which is easier to fulfill. A new reform in the Soviet economy is aimed at stimulating more ambitious plans by making the bonus size depend on the plan target as well as the degree to which it has been fulfilled. This novel incentive scheme is modelled in the present paper and its basic properties are analyzed. Some applications and extensions are proposed.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Often it is desirable to formulate certain decision problems without specifying a cut-off date and terminal conditions (which are sometimes felt to be arbitrary). This paper examines the duality theory that goes along with the kind of open-ended convex programming models frequently encountered in mathematical economics and operations research. Under a set of general axioms, duality conditions necessary and sufficient for infinite horizon optimality are derived. The proof emphasizes the close connection between duality theory for infinite horizon convex models and dynamic programming. Dual prices with the required properties are inductively constructed in each period as supports to the state evaluation function.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper is concerned with the problem of choosing, on the enterprise level, a least cost technology for producing a bill of goods. Given certain simplifying assumptions appropriate to a long-run partial equilibrium environment, the problem is shown to be of a form which is solvable with any one of several techniques. Algorithms are presented and discussed. Proofs of their computational properties are provided, and implications for economic theory and decentralized decision making are noted. Finally, the basic model is expanded to consider the effects of modifying some of the economic assumptions.']