 [' We develop a statistical framework to use satellite data on night lights to augment official income growth measures. For countries with poor national income accounts, the optimal estimate of growth is a composite with roughly equal weights on conventionally measured growth and growth predicted from lights. Our estimates differ from official data by up to three percentage points annually. Using lights, empirical analyses of growth need no longer use countries as the unit of analysis; we can measure growth for sub- and supranational regions. We show, for example, that coastal areas in sub-Saharan Africa are growing slower than the hinterland. (JEL E01, E23, O11, 047, 057)'] ['We examine the dynamic interaction of the population age structure, economic dependency, and fertility, paying particular attention to the role of intergenerational transfers. In the short run, a reduction in fertility produces a %u201Cdemographic dividend%u201D that allows for higher consumption. In the long run, however, higher old-age dependency can more than offset this effect. To analyze these dynamics we develop a highly tractable continuous-time overlapping generations model in which population is divided into three groups (young, working age, and old) and transitions between groups take place in a probabilistic fashion. We show that most highly developed countries have fertility below the rate that maximizes steady state consumption. Further, the dependency-minimizing response to increased longevity is to raise fertility. In the face of the high taxes required to support transfers to a growing aged population, we demonstrate that the actual response of fertility will likely be exactly the opposite, leading to increased population aging.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' The quantity of human-generated light visible from outer space reflects variation in both population density and income per capita. In this paper we explore the usefulness of the change in visible light as a measure of GDP growth. We discuss the data, and then present a statistical framework that uses lights growth to augment existing income growth measures, assuming that measurement errors in the two series are uncorrelated. For some countries with very poor income measurement, we significantly revise estimates of growth. Our technique also produces growth estimates for cities or regions where no other data are available.'] ["We examine the role of changing mortality in explaining the rise of retirement over the course of the 20th century. We construct a model in which individuals make labor/leisure choices over their lifetimes subject to uncertainty about their date of death. In an environment in which mortality is high, an individual who saved up for retirement would face a high risk of dying before he could enjoy his planned leisure. In this case, the optimal plan is for people to work until they die. As mortality falls, however, it becomes optimal to plan, and save for, retirement. We simulate our model using actual changes in the US life table over the last century, and show that this 'uncertainty effect' of declining mortality would have more than outweighed the 'horizon effect' by which rising life expectancy would have led to later retirement. One of our key results is that continuous changes in mortality can lead to discontinuous changes in retirement behavior.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [" We construct a matrix showing the share of the year 2000 population in every country that is descended from people in different source countries in the year 1500. Using the matrix to adjust indicators of early development so that they reflect the history of a population's ancestors rather than the history of the place they live today greatly improves the ability of those indicators to predict current GDP. The variance of the early development history of a country's inhabitants is a good predictor for current inequality, with ethnic groups originating in regions having longer histories of organized states tending to be at the upper end of a country's income distribution. (c) 2010 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.."] [' I examine the economic effects of disease and disease control. I consider both the effect of disease on conventionally measured GDP and also the monetary equivalent of the utility benefits from lower mortality. Regarding the effects on conventional GDP, I evaluate a number of approaches including cross-country regression (with and without instruments for disease) and simulation based on microeconomic studies. I also discuss theoretically and empirically the different channels that link disease and economic outcomes, including effects that run through labour productivity, education and population growth. Different approaches yield somewhat different results, but the overall finding is that there is at best weak support for the claims that the disease burden in Africa significantly lowers GDP or that improving health would provide a big impetus to economic growth. In contrast, the monetary equivalent of the utility benefits from better health can be extremely large. For example, reduced mortality in many developing countries has made a contribution to utility of roughly the same value as the growth of conventional GDP over the last several decades. Copyright 2010 The author 2010. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Centre for the Study of African Economies. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org, Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' I use microeconomic estimates of the effect of health on individual outcomes to construct macroeconomic estimates of the proximate effect of health on GDP per capita. I employ a variety of methods to construct estimates of the return to health, which I combine with cross-country and historical data on height, adult survival rates, and age at menarche. Using my preferred estimate, eliminating health differences among countries would reduce the variance of log GDP per worker by 9.9 percent and reduce the ratio of GDP per worker at the 90th percentile to GDP per worker at the 10th percentile from 20.5 to 17.9. While this effect is economically significant, it is also substantially smaller than estimates of the effect of health on economic growth that are derived from cross-country regressions. Copyright by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [' This paper addresses two issues. The first is whether demographic change was plausibly responsible for the run-up in stock prices over the last decade, and whether an attempt by the baby boom cohort to cash out of its investments in the period 2010-2030 might lead to an "asset meltdown". The second issue is whether the rise in dependency that will accompany the retirement of the baby-boom cohort calls for an increase in national saving. We analyze these issues using a forward-looking macro-demographic model, and show that they are related via the existence of installation costs for capital. If such costs are sufficiently large, then demographics do have the power to affect stock prices, but "saving for America\'s old age" is less optimal. However, conventional estimates of capital installation costs are not large enough to explain large stock price movements in response to actual demographic change. Copyright The editors of the "Scandinavian Journal of Economics", 2003 .'] [' We use development accounting techniques to assess the contribution of health to differences in income per capita among countries. Rather than rely on regressions in aggregate data, we build up estimates of the effect of health starting from microeconomic data. We examine both a particular condition, anemia, and a proxy for general health, the adult survival rate. We find that differences in anemia explain 1.3 percent of the log variance of income per capita, and that differences in adult survival explain 19 percent of the log variance of income per capita. The latter figure is almost one third of the variation in output that is left unexplained by other measures of factor accumulation. (JEL: O47, I10) Copyright (c) 2003 The European Economic Association.'] ['Massimo Livi-Bacci has taken us on a fascinating tour of demographic history. What lessons for developments in the world today can we draw from the story he tells? I will distinguish between three types of lessons, which I call "economic lessons," "demographic lessons," and "cultural/political lessons."'] ['Saving and growth are strongly positively correlated across countries. Recent empirical evidence suggests that this correlation holds largely because high growth leads to high saving, not the other way around. This evidence is difficult to reconcile with standard growth models, since forward-looking consumers with standard utility should save less in a fast-growing economy because they know they will be richer in the future than they are today. We show that if utility depends partly on how consumption compares to a "habit stock" determined by past consumption, an otherwise-standard growth model can imply that increases in growth can cause increased saving.'] ['This paper develops a unified growth model that captures the historical evolution of population, technology, and output. It encompasses the endogenous transition between three regimes that have characterized economic development. The economy evolves from a Malthusian regime, where technological progress is slow and population growth prevents any sustained rise in income per capita, into a Post-Malthusian regime, where technological progress rises and population growth absorbs only part of output growth. Ultimately, a demographic transition reverses the positive relationship between income and population growth, and the economy enters a Modern Growth regime, with reduced population growth and sustained income growth.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper examines the historical evolution of the relationship between population growth, technological change, and the standard of living. It considers several unified models that encompass the transition between three distinct regimes that have characterized the process of economic development: ``The Malthusian Regime," ``The Post-Malthusian Regime," and the ``Modern Growth Regime". We view the unified modeling of this long transition process - from thousand of years of Malthusian stagnation through the demographic transition to modern growth - as one of the most significant research challenges facing economists interested in growth and development.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['We examine a model in which per capita income, inequality, intergenerational mobility, and returns to education are all determined endogenously. Individuals earn wages depending on their ability, which is a random variable. They purchase an education with transfers received from their parents, and are subject to liquidity constraints. In the model, multiple steady state equilibria are possible: countries with identical tastes and technologies can reach differing rates of mobility, inequality, and per capita income. Equilibria with higher levels of output also have lower inequality, higher mobility, and more efficient distribution of education.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' We model growth and technology transfer in a world where technologies are specific to particular combinations of inputs. Unlike the usual specification, our model does not imply that an improvement in one technique for producing a given good improves all other techniques for producing that good. Technology improvements diffuse slowly across countries, although knowledge spreads instantaneously and there are no technology adoption costs. However, even with "Ak" production, our model implies conditional convergence. This model, with appropriate technology and technology diffusion, has more realistic predictions for convergence and growth than either the standard neoclassical model or simple endogenous-growth models. \xc2\xa9 2000 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] [" We examine the dynamics of two endogenous-growth models in which agents have comparison utility. In the inward-looking economy, individuals care about how their current consumption compares with their own past consumption. In the outward-looking economy, they care about how their own consumption compares with other people's consumption. In response to a negative shock to capital, saving and growth will temporarily fall in both of the models that we consider but will remain constant in a model with standard preferences. The decline will be smaller in the outward- than in the inward-looking case, but utility will be lower in the former case because of a negative externality. Copyright 1997 by Kluwer Academic Publishers"] [' This paper examines popular advice on portfolio allocation among cash, bonds, and stocks. It documents that this advice is inconsistent with the mutual-fund separation theorem, which states that all investors should hold the same composition of risky assets. In contrast to the theorem, popular advisors recommend that aggressive investors hold a lower ratio of bonds to stocks than conservative investors. The paper explores various possible explanations of this puzzle and finds them unsatisfactory. Copyright 1997 by American Economic Association.'] [" This paper examines a novel mechanism linking fertility and growth. There are three components to the model: first, increases in capital per worker raise women's relative wages, since capital is more complementary to women's labor input than to men's. Second, increasing women's relative wages reduces fertility by raising the cost of children more than household income. And third, lower fertility raises the level of capital per worker. This positive feedback loop generates a demographic transition: a rapid decline in fertility accompanied by accelerated output growth. Copyright 1996 by American Economic Association."] [" The authors study the relationship of news to bond prices. They select a set of major news events based solely on their significance as judged by historians and examine the corresponding bond price movements. The variance of holding returns is higher for weeks with important news than for weeks without such news, and the probability of a very large return (in absolute value) is higher for 'news' weeks than for 'non-news' weeks. The magnitude of these differences, however, suggests that much of the variability in bond prices cannot be explained by news, though important caveats about the authors' measurement of news apply. Copyright 1996 by MIT Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We examine the relationship between income growth and saving using both cross-country and household data. At the aggregate level, we find that growth Granger causes saving, but that saving does not Granger cause growth. Using household data, we find that households with predictably higher income growth save more than households with predictably low growth. We argue that standard Permanent Income models of consumption cannot explain these findings, but that a model of consumption with habit formation may. The positive effect of growth on saving implies that previous estimates of the effect of saving on growth may be overstated.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Examination of household (micro) data on the elderly has generally concluded that they do not dissave significantly, whereas estimates using aggregate (macro) data have shown that the presence of a large elderly population leads to a lower saving rate. This paper shows that if interactions between generations are important, one would not expect these estimates to be the same. The paper presents new evidence that bequests are plausibly the source of this discrepancy. Examination of data from young households that have received or expect bequests confirms that bequests are indeed an important factor determining the saving of the young. Copyright 1994, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper examines whether the Solow growth model is consistent with the international variation in the standard of living. It shows that an augmented Solow model that includes accumulation of human as well as physical capital provides an excellent description of the cross-country data. The paper also examines the implications of the Solow model for convergence in standards of living, that is, for whether poor countries tend to grow faster than rich countries. The evidence indicates that, holding population growth and capital accumulation constant, countries converge at about the rate the augmented Solow model predicts. Copyright 1992, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper examines the impact of major demographic changes on the housing market in the United States. The entry of the Baby Boom generation into its house-buying years is found to be the major cause of the increase in real housing prices in the l97Os. Since the Baby Bust generation is now entering its house-buying years, housing demand will grow more slowly in the 1990s than in any time in the past forty years. If the historical relation between housing demand and housing prices continues into the future, real housing prices will fall substantially over the next two decades.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' The founding of the Federal Reserve System in 1914 led to a substantial change in the behavior of nominal interest rates. The authors examine the timing of this change and the speed with which it was effected. They then use data on the term structure of interest rates to determine how expectations responded. Their results indicate that the change in policy regime was rapid and that individuals quickly understood the new environment they were facing. Copyright 1987 by American Economic Association.']