 ["We document the sharp expansion of higher education in China beginning in 1999 and analyze its impacts on the unemployment of college graduates, using nationally representative population surveys from 2000 and 2005. We show that the expansion policy has increased the probability of college attendance among high school graduates. Using a difference-in-difference strategy, we find that China's expansion policy has sharply increased the unemployment rate among young college graduates, and that the unemployment rate for college graduates increases more in non-coastal (especially central) regions than in large coastal cities. We suggest that encouraging regional mobility of college graduates and increasing matching quality can potentially reduce the unemployment rate at the national level."] ['In existing literature, there are few concrete examples of multiple equilibria and the only ones known to us have 3 equilibria, but multiplicity remains a major concern for applied models used in policy work. Here, we report numerical examples for a 3 individual 2 good CES/LES pure exchange economy directly calibrated to 5 equilibria. We are able to use analytical methods of the model to show that for certain parameterizations there are no more than 5 equilibria (given the parameter values). We are also able to explore the size of the regions of the parameter space for which 5 equilibria persist, and show these ranges to be very small. Other features of the equilibrium manifolds are explored. Findings are only suggestive and indicative for the special cases we consider rather than definitive, but informative relative to existing work.'] [' type="main" xml:id="twec12123-abs-0001"&gt;  The Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) is a new negotiation on cross-border liberalisation of goods and service flows going beyond WTO disciplines and focused on issues such as regulation and border controls. This paper uses numerical simulation methods to assess the potential effects of a TPP agreement on China and also China\'s inclusion or exclusion on other countries. We use a numerical 11-country global general equilibrium model with trade costs and inside money. Trade costs are calculated using a method based on gravity equations. TPP barriers potentially removable are trade costs less tariffs. Simulation results reveal that China will be slightly hurt by TPP initiatives in welfare when China is out, but the total production and export will be increased. Other non-TPP countries will be mostly hurt in welfare, but member countries will mostly gain. If China takes part in TPP, she will significantly gain and increase other TPP countries\' gain as well. The comparison of TPP effects and global free trade effects show that the positive effects of global free trade are stronger than TPP effects. Japan\'s joining TPP would be beneficial to both herself and most of other TPP countries, but which negative effects on China\'s welfare when out of TPP will increase further.'] [" Based on urban household survey data, the authors find that skill premia increased significantly across all regions of China between 1995 and 2002, but only in coastal regions between 2002 and 2007. By then, these regions also displayed much wider wage inequality and thus contributed more to overall urban wage inequality than non-coastal regions. While privatization was the main driver of skill premia in 1995\xe2\x80\x932002, China's (regionally uneven) integration into the global economy became the dominant influence in 2002\xe2\x80\x9307. Reducing skill premia and inequality, the authors argue, calls for reform of the Hukou registration system which impedes skilled labour mobility and possibly also growth."] ["This paper decomposes the growth of China's export into three parts: growth in extensive margin, increased quantity and increased prices; we perform a series of empirical analyses using China's export data at the HS-6 digit level to analyze the characteristics of China's export growth. China's export growth depends more and more on price increases, less and less on quantity expansion. Compared with the rest of world, China's export price is in the process of improving, not at an increasing speed but at a declining pace. China's export performance is better than the rest of the world after the financial crisis and in 2008\xe2\x80\x932010. This reflects a strategy of lowering price and promoting sales in 2009 when facing a slump in export markets; and resuming price increases and increasing sales moderately in reaction to improving export conditions in 2010."] ['This paper utilizes a previously unavailable database on the commodity transactions of firms to analyze internal trade in China. This database is built from value-added tax (VAT) invoices collected under a comprehensive management information system, the Golden Tax Project (GTP). This project was established in 1994 to monitor and administer VAT collection and has been improved over the subsequent years. We present the structure, function, and evolution of the GTP, which provides reliable information on transaction values across provinces. We have access only to part of the GTP data set relevant to internal trade. The data suggests that internal trade in China has grown quickly but with seasonal fluctuations. Although the interprovincial trade in China is smaller than the interstate trade in United States and the intra-European Union trade, the high growth rate of the interprovincial trade suggests that economic connections among the provinces are strengthening. The positive relationship between internal trade and international trade in most regressions suggests the possible complementarity between these two types of trade.'] [' Global carbon pricing can yield revenues which are large enough to create significant global pro-poor redistributive opportunities. We analyze alternative multidecade growth trajectories from 2015 to 2105 for major global economies with carbon tax rates designed to stabilize emissions in the presence of both continued country growth and autonomous energy use efficiency improvement. In our central case analysis, revenues from globally internalizing carbon pricing rise to 8 % and then fall to 6 % of gross world product. High growth in India and China reduces global inequality and poverty strongly over time, but important incremental redistributive effects can be achieved using global carbon pricing revenues. Taking into account both between-country effects and previous literature estimates of within-country effects, a global carbon tax alone tends to be regressive in its global incidence. However, if its revenues are redistributed globally via equal per capita transfers, in our central case the Gini coefficient for world income falls by about 3 % and the share of the bottom decile rises by 81 % on average from 2015 to 2105. The population living in poverty falls by 16 % in 2015. Going further, global poverty could be eliminated entirely by 2015 according to our calculations if one third of global carbon tax revenues were redistributed directly to the poorest individuals. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014'] ["Numerical simulation analysis of bargaining solutions is little developed in existing literature. In this paper, we use a numerical general equilibrium model which captures China and her major trading partners and examine the outcomes of trade policy bargaining solutions (bargaining over tariffs and financial transfers) over time, and then measure both absolute and relative gains to China from trade bargaining. These measurements are important for policy making. Our simulation results indicate that China's welfare gain from trade bargaining will increase over time if countries keep their present higher GDP growth rates for several decades, but there are major difference when using different bargaining solution concepts. These differences have not been noted in existing literature but have an intuitive explanation. Our results also indicate that if China jointly bargains along with India, Brazil and other developing countries with the OECD, and when we use PPP to adjust China's relative GDP size China's gain will further increase."] ["What's the role of unilateral measures in global climate change mitigation in a post-Durban, post 2012 global policy regime? We argue that under conditions of preference heterogeneity, unilateral emissions mitigation at a subnational level may exist even when a nation is unwilling to commit to emission cuts. We establish that under certain assumptions, in a global strongly connected network of countries, learning the costs of switching to a low emissions activity can result in a universal adoption of such activities. We analyze the features of a policy proposal that could accelerate convergence to a low carbon world in the presence of global learning."] ["We suggest that the demographic changes caused by the one child policy (OCP) may not harm China's long-term growth. This is because of the higher human capital accumulation induced by the intergenerational transfer arrangements under China's poor-functioning formal social security system. Parents raise their children and depend on them for support when they reach an advanced age. A decrease in the number of children prompted by the OCP results in parents investing more in their children's education to ensure retirement consumption. In addition, decreased childcare costs strengthen educational investment through an income effect. Using a calibrated model, a benchmark with the OCP is compared to three counterfactual experiments without the OCP. Output in 2025 without OCP decreases about 4% under moderate estimates. The output gain comes from a greatly increased educational investment driven by fewer children (11.4years of schooling rather than 8.1). Our model sheds new light on the prospects of China's long-term growth by emphasizing the OCP's growth enhancing role through human capital formation under intergenerational transfer arrangements."] [' The traditional model of household labour supply incorporates leisure into preferences rather than focusing on how relative costs of production at home and via market activity determine market labour supply. In part, this reflects the lack of simple closed form solutions for the home production model. This article uses numerical techniques to compare the welfare costs of tax distortions of labour supply in models with and without home production. When observationally equivalent models of each type are calibrated to the same aggregate labour supply elasticity, the home production model of labour supply produces a much smaller welfare cost of tax distortions of labour supply than the standard model. Our results thus suggest that home production is important for understanding the welfare effects of labour tax policies.'] [' We discuss metrics of globalization for individual economies as distance measures between fully integrated and trade restricted equilibria in economies initially operating under less than full integration with the global economy. Such metrics can be used to construct country globalization metrics reflecting the distance of economies from full global integration due to trade barriers, barriers to factor flows, barriers to international financial intermediation, solved technological diffusion and other economy-specific features yielding less than full integration into the global economy. Many distance metrics present themselves and none are wholly satisfactory since they each behave differently across various displacements from integration. Distance measures can, for instance, be small in goods space but large in price space. We present alternative measures constructed for eight OECD economies and comment in a concluding section on other measures used elsewhere in the literature such as trade/GDP ratios.'] [' Unlike the case of competitive equilibria for which there is the index theorem, almost nothing is known about multiple equilibria in Nash games. Multiple Nash equilibria are hard to find computationally accounting for spare prior literature discussion. Existing numerical literature on tariff games either assumes uniqueness or uses restrictive functional forms that guarantees this is the case. Here, we show for pure exchange Constant Elasticity of Substitution (CES) two country models with tariffs both how the introduction of a tariff can generate multiple competitive equilibria and related examples of widely separated multiple Nash equilibria. These typically occur when substitution elasticities are low, although implied import demand elasticities can still be high if the shares of trade in consumption are small. The implication seems to be that as one moves away from the constant elasticity excess demands (offer curve) formulations used in the optimal tariff literature to explicit structural models of international trade, multiplicity of Nash equilibria may well be present.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper develops a human capital measure in the sense of Schultz [Schultz, T. W. 1960. "Capital Formation by Education." Journal of Political Economy, 68: 571, University of Chicago Press.] and uses this to reevaluate the contribution of human capital to China\'s economic growth rather than relying on years of schooling as in current literature. The results indicate that human capital plays an important role in China\'s economic growth, 38.1% of economic growth over 1978\xe2\x80\x932008, and even higher for 1999\xe2\x80\x932008. In addition, because human capital formation accelerated following major educational expansion increases after 1999 (college enrollment in China increased nearly fivefold between 1997 and 2007) while growth rates of Gross domestic product (GDP) are little changed over the period after 1999, total factor productivity (TFP) increases fall if human capital is used in growth accounting as we suggest. TFP, by our calculations, contributes 16.92% of growth between 1978 and 2008, but this contribution falls sharply between 1999 and 2008. TFP growth estimates along with the high contribution of physical and human capital to economic growth seem to suggest that there could have been decreases in the efficiency of input usage in China or worsened misallocation of physical and human capital in recent years. These results underscore the importance of efficient use of human capital, as well as the volume of human capital creation, in China\'s growth strategy.'] ['In this paper, we discuss monetary thought in ancient China from the perspective of Western monetary theory. We set out the structure of economic activity in the various dynasties of ancient China and emphasize the differences in monetary structure from those of Europe and later North America. Imperial China was a politically integrated structure with regional segmentation of economic activities and hence with regional money. Monetary policy was conducted at the regional level but overseen politically. In various regions, different forms of money circulated, with gold, silver, copper, and paper money all presented at various times. Monetary policy was guided by monetary thought, as it was also guided later in Europe. Basic concepts, such as monetary functions, the velocity of circulation, inflation, interest rate parity and the quantity theory, were all present. The economics of Imperial China witnessed boom and bust, inflation and deflation and monetary control, similar to what was later seen in Europe. Chinese monetary thought thus seems to have preceded Western monetary thought and the two had remarkable similarities. Whether much of this thought traveled down the Silk Road remains unknown, but the possibility is intriguing.'] ['This paper focuses on the cross usage of terminology originating in one discipline but used in another, using economics and health sciences as our example. We highlight the use by economists of such terms as the brain, depression, and exhaustion whereas currency, elasticity, equilibrium, and optimality are all central notions in economics now being used in health sciences. We suggest that the dual usage occurs in ways where the original use and meaning of terms is not fully mirrored in their use in the other discipline. In part, this may reflect the pressures on researchers in all disciplines to be novel and innovative, and hence the incentive to adopt out of discipline terminology without full appreciation of its full meaning elsewhere. We discuss possible explanations for this characteristic of cross disciplinary use of terminology.'] ['This paper examines the incentives for individual countries to engage in global negotiations to reduce carbon emissions in order to prevent global warming. To reduce carbon emissions a country reduces consumption of its own good. The direct effect of reducing its own consumption is that consumption declines and with it utility. However, reducing carbon emissions also lowers global temperatures and that increases utility. The trade-off between these two effects determines the incentive for countries to reduce carbon emissions. We find that larger countries are more likely to participate because a given percentage reduction in output will result in a larger reduction in global temperatures. Longer time horizons also lead to greater willingness to participate. The presence of international trade makes carbon reduction agreements more likely because reducing the output of your own (export) good has a positive terms of trade effect which reduces the cost of output reduction.'] ['We focus on the external sector component of financial instability and link changes in country imbalances to GDP growth rates in ways to produce indices of expected worsening or improving financial instability at different points in time. Our results suggest that depending upon the index used and the base date chosen for comparison, different implications emerge for the linkage between external sector imbalances, perceived future instability and hence the possible onset of a financial crisis. The implication we drawn is that links between imbalances and best policy response to 2008 crisis asserted by the G20 may be more tenuous than claimed.'] [" The general presumption in the policy literature has been that China's sustained high growth since 2008 and the global financial crisis (with a dip in Q1 2009) have been heavily reflections of the November 2008 4-trillion Renminbi stimulus package. Less attention has been paid to the revenue side of the government account, even though immediately following the onset of the crisis, government revenues fell after growing at roughly 30% annually pre-crisis. The issue we address in this article is the relative importance of expenditure stimulus and tax stabilization after the onset of the 2008 crisis. We use a Keynesian macroeconomic model of China recast in changes form to quantitatively evaluate the relative importance of the stimulus and automatic tax stabilization components. Our simulation results indicate that without the stimulus package, the economic growth in 2009 would have been only 6.8%, and without slowed growth of government revenues, the growth rate in 2009 would have been only 6.0%. Our conclusion is that while increases in government spending and revenue reduction stimulus from automatic revenue responses both contributed to the speedy recovery of the Chinese economy from the crisis, the tax side may have contributed more than the expenditure side."] [" We document key features of the deepening economic relationship between Brazil and China. These include sharply increased bilateral trade and foreign direct investment flows and also enhanced cohesion of negotiating positions in international fora. Data presented show bilateral trade between Brazil and China surging after 2001 and China is now Brazil's largest export market whereas Brazil's export share to the USA has halved over this period. The number of bilateral cooperation agreements between the two countries has also significantly increased in recent years. Projections of future trade flows using current growth rates suggest that China will soon become the dominant trade partner for Brazil. (JEL codes: F10, F13, F14, F20, F21, F42) Copyright The Author 2012. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Ifo Institute, Munich. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com, Oxford University Press."] [" This article investigates the effect of house prices on household savings rates in urban China employing the 2002 and 2007 data of the Chinese Households Income Project (CHIP). We find that the rapid appreciation of house prices cannot explain high Chinese households' savings rates and the rising of Chinese savings rates. On the contrary, we find a negative relationship between house prices and household savings rates for home renters and homeowners. We do not find any evidence of 'savings for housing purchase' for young home renters when house prices increase. Their savings rates declined during housing market booms in recent 10\xe2\x80\x89years. Savings rates of homeowners possessing multiple housing have decreased more because of 'the pure housing wealth effects.'"] ["We explore how outcomes of trade policy retaliation (Nash tariff games) are affected when trade simultaneously takes places geographically across countries and through time via financial intermediation. In such models, deficits and surpluses in goods trade are endogenously determined, and retaliatory trade policy towards goods can affect these and monetary trade models show different retaliatory trade outcomes from conventional goods only models. We use a general equilibrium goods trade model, which also captures trade through time in the form of inside money as used in macro literature on one good overlapping generations models. In this model, the deficit or surplus of any country in goods trade is endogenous determined. Optimal trade policy differs from that in a conventional goods only trade model in that countries which run trade deficits in goods will have more strategic power through tariff policy (and surplus countries less) than in models with balanced trade. We calibrate such a model to China's trade with the rest of the world and explore two country tariff games using 2005 data. Results show the significant impacts on Nash outcomes of endogenizing the Chinese trade surplus in the model in this way."] ["Carbon taxes have largely been discussed as individual country measures (even if taken simultaneously) aimed to reduce carbon emissions, slow global warning, and internalizing the externalities associated with carbon generating activities, such as power generation. There has however been little emphasis on the incentives for subgroups of countries to jointly peruse carbon taxes. Yet for large importers of oil such as the US, the EU and China, their incentive is clearly to act together and have their taxes partly or wholly borne by oil exporters given this incentives. This paper discusses the potential for joint OECD (or non-OPEC) carbon taxes to reduce OPEC's monopoly rent and provide benefits to non-OPEC countries provided jointly agreed trigger strategies are adhered to enforce mutual cooperation. To this end, we develop a multi-region general equilibrium structure with an endogenously determined oil supply by OPEC in which both emissions and energy prices are endogenously determined. Our results suggest that jointly enacted carbon taxes by the US, the EU and China can be heavily borne by oil exporters; they reduce the welfare of OPEC and increase the welfare of non-OPEC countries. These carbon taxes reduce global emissions, but the effect is small."] ['In the 3 years before the 2008 Financial Crisis, GDP growth in Sub-Saharan Africa (averaged over individual economies) was around 6%, or 2 percentage points above mean growth rates for the preceding 10 years. This period also coincided with significant Chinese FDI flows into these countries, accounting for up to 10% of total inward FDI flows for certain countries in these years. We use growth accounting methods to assess what portion of this elevated growth can be attributed to Chinese inward FDI. We follow Solow (1957), Dennison (1962), and others and use data for individual economies between 1990 and 2008 to calculate Solow residuals for these years for individual economies. We use capital stock data, workforce, and factor share data by country. Capital stock data is unavailable directly and so we use perpetual inventory methods to construct the data. Factor shares come from UN National Accounts data. We then run counterfactual growth accounting experiments for thirteen Sub-Saharan African countries excluding Chinese FDI inflows for 2005-2007 and also 2003-2009. Our individual results vary by year and country, but there are several year/country combinations where Chinese FDI contributed to an additional one half of a percentage point or above to GDP growth. These results suggest that a significant, even if in some cases small, portion of the elevated growth in Sub-Saharan Africa in the three years before the Financial Crisis and also in the two years afterwards (2008-2009) can be attributed to Chinese inward investment.'] ["This paper presents numerical simulation results that suggest that China can both reduce its trade imbalance and receive welfare benefits by switching the value added tax (VAT) regime from the current destination principle to an origin principle. We modify the traditional general equilibrium tax model to capture endogenous trade imbalances along with endogenous factor supply, a fixed exchange rate and a non-accommodative monetary policy structure which supports the Chinese trade imbalance. We calibrate model parameters to 2008 data and simulate counterfactual equilibrium for VAT tax basis switches in which the trade imbalance changes. Our results suggest that given China's trade surplus VAT regime switching to an origin basis can decrease China's trade surplus by over 40%, and additionally increase Chinese and world welfare. This has implications for present G20 discussions on finding ways to adjust global trade imbalances."] ['This paper discusses the size of impact of carbon motivated border tax adjustments on world trade and welfare. We report numerical simulation results which suggest that impacts on welfare, trade, and emissions will likely be small. This is because proposed measures use carbon emissions in the importing country in producing goods similar to imports rather than carbon content in calculating the size of barriers. Moreover, because border adjustments involve both tariffs and export rebates, it is the differences in emissions intensity across sector rather than emissions level which matters. Where there is no difference in emissions intensities across sectors, Lerner symmetry holds for the border adjustment and no relative effects occur.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" In this article we show that the marginal welfare costs of inflationary is progressively larger with the inflation rate in Bailey's formulation, but under Baumol--Tobin treatment the opposite applies."] ["Two closely related numerical general equilibrium models of world trade are used to analyze the potential consequences of US\xe2\x80\x93China bilateral retaliation on trade flows and welfare. One is a conventional Armington trade model with five regions, the US, China, EU, Japan and the Rest of the World, and calibrated to a global 2009 micro consistent data set. The other is a modified version of this model with monetary non-neutrals and including China's trade surplus as an endogenous variable."] [' We discuss whether the introduction of climate change considerations into Nash tariff games increases or reduces post-retaliation tariffs. We briefly discuss how climate change considerations can be introduced into computational trade models. We then calculate optimal tariffs in comparable conventional (no climate change considerations present) and with climate change trade models. Results show that compared with conventional trade models, adding climate change considerations reduces the level of optimal tariffs, but this only occurs when the damage effects involved are large.'] ["We in this paper assess the impacts of technological change on China's regional disparities using a general equilibrium model of multiple regions and multiple sectors. We use the most recent available Chinese interregional data to calibrate the model parameters for 1987 and 2000. We then assess the impacts of neutral, biased, and aggregate technological changes on China's regional disparity by conducting counterfactual experiments. The results generally suggest that China's overall technological change between 1987 and 2000 has increased China's regional disparities. The results also suggest that neutral technological change reduces China's regional disparities while biased technological change increases disparities and the influences of the latter outweigh those of the former and the net effects of technological changes on regional disparities are increasing."] ['This paper discusses the role that trade can potentially play in both negotiating and operating a post Kyoto/post 2012 global climate policy regime. As an addition to the bargaining set for a global climate negotiation, trade in principle widens the range of jointly beneficial potential outcomes and can in this sense be a potential facilitator of an agreed global climate regime. The reverse is also true, that in a linked climate-trade-finance global policy coordination structure that goes well beyond what was envisioned at Bretton Woods, climate now added to the global policy bargaining set also offers the prospect of potentially stronger trade disciplines (and even beyond WTO disciplines being negotiated). Trade policy can as well be an instrument for the implementation of a global climate regime, since trade provides a mechanism for achieving an internalization outcome for the global externality that climate change represents, and that provides a potentially more efficient outcome and also helps meet distributional objectives. In short, trade added to the emerging post 2012 climate regime can both expand the bargaining set for both (effectively linked) negotiations, and additionally provide an instrument for the implementation of an agreed outcome.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' We discuss a simple model of choices of joint consumption by a working couple who place maintenance of their marriage (relationship) above all else. Any proposal made by one partner seeking to provide maximal utility to the other so as to preserve the marriage, in the case where preferences of partners are unknown, will be accepted. In this sense consumption is arbitrary. In the concluding section, we suggest that while overly simple, this structure may characterize to some degree significant amounts of observed consumption, emphasizing how social arrangements and the value placed on them by individuals can impact on observed economic behaviour.'] [' In this article, we present examples of tax-distorted general equilibrium economies in which equilibria are unique in the absence of taxes, but taxes generate multiplicity when introduced over a range of tax rates. We also provide converse examples of economies with multiple no-tax equilibria, but where taxes when introduced induce uniqueness. Both Foster and Sonnenschein (1970) and Kehoe (1985) discussed the possibility of tax-induced multiplicity. Here, we show how in 2-individual 2-good pure exchange economies with Constant Elasticity of Substitution/Linear Expenditure System (CES/LES) preferences such cases can occur. We also provide ranges of consumption tax rates over which these cases can occur for alternative parameterizations.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We develop a methodology to determine numerically how globalized the world economy is. We present a global general equilibrium model capturing major OECD economies and a residual rest of world for which alternative metrics of distance between observed, free trade and autarky equilibria can be developed. We use data for 2000 and report a number of distance measures between the 2000 observed trade restricted equilibrium and both free trade and autarky equilibria noting the absence of prior literature on metrics of distance between equilibria. The measures are used to determine the degree to which the world economy is globalized.'] ["This paper documents the major transformation of higher education that has been underway in China since 1999 and evaluates its potential global impacts. Reflecting China's commitment to continued high growth through quality upgrading and the production of ideas and intellectual property as set out in both the 10th (2001-2005) and 11th (2006-2010) five-year plans, this transformation focuses on major new resource commitments to tertiary education and also embodies significant changes in organizational form. This focus on tertiary education differentiates the Chinese case from other countries who earlier at similar stages of development instead stressed primary and secondary education. The number of undergraduate and graduate students in China has been grown at approximately 30% per year since 1999, and the number of graduates at all levels of higher education in China has approximately quadrupled in the last 6 years. The size of entering classes of new students and total student enrollments have risen even faster, and have approximately quintupled. Prior to 1999 increases in these areas were much smaller. Much of the increased spending is focused on elite universities, and new academic contracts differ sharply from earlier ones with no tenure and annual publication quotas often used. All of these changes have already had large impacts on China's higher educational system and are beginning to be felt by the wider global educational structure. We suggest that even more major impacts will follow in the years to come and there are implications for global trade both directly in ideas, and in idea derived products. These changes, for now, seem relatively poorly documented in literature.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["Given the rapidly growing reserves in Asia (China, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan) and the pressures from trading partners to revalue, there is a need to examine commercial policy in more than a pure barter model. Here we evaluate the joint impacts of exchange rate appreciation on trade flows and country surpluses using a general equilibrium trade model with a simple monetary structure in which the trade surplus is endogenously determined in the exchange rate setting country and the exchange rate is exogenous. We illustrate its application to the Chinese case using calibration to 2005 data. Our results, while elasticity dependent, suggest that the impacts of Renminbi (RMB) revaluation on the surplus are proportionally larger than on trade flows, and that changes in trade flows can be substantial. Different treatments of China's processing trade have small impact on changes in China's trade flow under RMB appreciation, but significant impacts on the change in the surplus. Results are elasticity dependent; larger substitution elasticities in preferences yield larger effects on trade flows and the surplus."] ["This paper presents both analytics and numerical simulation results relevant to proposals for carbon motivated regional trade agreements summarized in Dong and Whalley (2010). Unlike traditional regional trade agreements, by lowing tariffs on participant's low carbon emission goods and setting penalties on outsiders to force them to join such agreements, carbon motivated regional trade agreements reflect an effective merging of trade and climate change regimes, and are rising in profile as part of the post 2012 Copenhagen UNFCC negotiation. By adding country energy extraction cost functions, we develop a multi-region general equilibrium structure with endogenously determined energy supply. We calibrate our model to business as usual scenarios for the period 2006\xe2\x80\x932036. Our results show that carbon motivated regional agreements can reduce global emissions, but the effect is very small and even with penalty mechanisms used, the effects are still small. This supports the basic idea in our previous policy paper that trade policy is likely to be a relatively minor consideration in climate change containment."] ['Because China\xc2\x92s economic structure is different from that in OECD countries, using conventional neo-classical competitive trade models to analyze the welfare and trade impacts of trade related policy change can be misleading. In particular, both the exchange rate regime and output and pricing policies of state owned enterprises (SOE\xc2\x92s) will have effects on trade and welfare which differ from a classical competitive model. This paper present a numerical model that captures the combined and interactive effects of three policy elements in prototype form of tariffs, policy towards SOEs in the industrial sector, and an exchange rate regime supporting large trade surpluses and additions to foreign reserves. The model has non neutral monetary features, endogenous trade imbalances and average product pricing of labor in goods. We do not claim it to be fully representative of modern China, but it does go some way beyond simple competitive models used elsewhere and points to different conclusions of policy impact. We calibrate our model to 2006 data, and then evaluate the impacts both singly and in combination of: tariff liberalization, a move to more freely floating exchange rates, and SOE enterprise reform. Results show that large differences in policy have a different impact relative to a classical competitive model. SOE reform and a freely floating Chinese exchange rate have more impact on China\xc2\x92s welfare than tariff liberalization. Policies of RMB appreciation and increasing China\xc2\x92s money stock reduce China\xc2\x92s trade surplus. In the traditional competitive model, trade liberalization impacts both imports and exports, while in our central case model, with endogenously determined trade surplus, trade liberalization has little effect on exports. Most of the policy impact is on imports and the trade surplus. SOE reform of China\xc2\x92s manufacturing sector significantly decreases production of China\xc2\x92s manufacturing sector and increases production in China\xc2\x92s other sectors.'] [' Abstract This paper discusses both the potential contribution that trade policy initiatives can make towards the achievement of significant global carbon emissions reduction and the potential impacts of proposals now circulating for carbon reduction motivated geographical trade arrangements, including carbon-free trade areas. We first suggest that trade policy is likely to be a relatively minor consideration in climate change containment. The dominant influence on carbon emissions globally for the next several decades will be growth more than trade and its composition, and in turn, the size of trade seemingly matters more than its composition given differences in emission intensity between tradables and non-tradables. We then note that differences in emissions intensity across countries are larger than across products or sectors and so issues of country discrimination in trade policy (and violations of MFN) arise. Copyright 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] ['We discuss recent policy debate in Russia on moving from the present value added tax to a sales tax structure covering households, government and exports. We describe and document the debate, discussing in detail what the perceived Russian problems with the VAT are. We suggest that many of the difficulties reflect the multi staging in the credit-invoice mechanism in the VAT, rather than the VAT per se. We discuss the possible use of the subtraction and addition methods in the VAT as an alternative to the sales tax proposed. We also report estimates of possible changes in effective tax rates across sectors if the sales tax were enacted.'] ["This paper presents and assesses of the contribution of inward FDI to China's recent rapid economic growth using a two stage growth accounting approach. Recent econometric literature focuses on testing whether Chinese growth depends on inward FDI rather than measuring the contribution. Foreign Invested Enterprises (FIEs), often (but not exclusively) are joint ventures between foreign companies and Chinese enterprises, and can be thought of as forming a distinctive subpart of the Chinese economy. These enterprises account for over 50% of China's exports and 60% of China's imports. Their share in Chinese GDP has been over 20% in the last two years, but they employ only 3% of the workforce, since their average labor productivity exceeds that of Non-FIEs by around 9:1. Their production is more heavily for export rather than the domestic market because FIEs provide access to both distribution systems abroad and product design for export markets. Our decomposition results indicate that China's FIEs may have contributed over 40% of China's economic growth in 2003 and 2004, and without this inward FDI, China's overall GDP growth rate could have been around 3.4 percentage points lower. We suggest that the sustainability of both China' export and overall economic growth may be questionable if inward FDI plateaus in the future."] ['Two effects are at issue in evaluating country incentives to participate in global carbon emission initiatives: a utility loss from reduced consumption due to reduced use of fossil fuels and a gain from lowered temperature change. The latter accrues to all countries. Own country emissions reductions are typically not in the self interest of countries and hence countries will not participate in global climate negotiations, unless the perceived damage from climate change is very large and much larger than damage estimates in the Stern review. We use Stern based damage estimates and investigate how the incentives for large population low wage rapidly growing countries in the BRIC group (Brazil, Russia, India, China) to participate in global climate change negotiations both as a sub-global coalition and individually can be affected by penalties (tariffs) inflicted or financial transfers made to them by the OECD. We assess what levels of other country trade measures linked to non-participation are needed to induce compliance as an all or nothing discrete choice. We also analyze participation linked to financial transfers. We use a general equilibrium model calibrated to a 2006-2056 base case, and capture induced changes in the global trade equilibrium in our analyses. Our results suggest that only very high tariffs of over a hundred percent by all other countries, or even higher tariffs by the OECD alone, could induce participation by BRIC countries. Equally, large financial transfers would be needed.'] ['The surprisingly high Canada-U.S. border effect estimated by McCallum has been puzzling trade economists in the last ten years. We argue in this paper that conventional estimates of the border effect without consideration of non-tradable goods can overstate the trade reducing effect of the national border and the impacts can be considerable. We then explore the Canada-U.S. case with a numerical general equilibrium model with parameters calibrated to 2001 data. Our counterfactual experiment results suggest that after adjusting for effects of non-tradable goods the Canada-U.S. border effect is reduced to 2.11.'] [' Abstract (1285) Ben Lockwood and John Whalley We discuss emerging proposals for border tax adjustments (BTAs) to accompany commitments to reduce carbon emissions in the EU, the US and other OECD economies. The rationale offered for such border adjustment is that various entities, such as the EU, if making commitments to reduce emissions which go beyond those undertaken in other regions of the world, impose added costs on domestic producers which create a competitive disadvantage for them. Some form of remedy is viewed as reasonable to maintain the competitiveness of domestic industries when responding to global environmental problems. In this paper, we argue that despite its current carbon manifestation, the issue of border tax adjustments and both their rationale and their effects on trade are not new and, despite the present debate (which seems to overlook older literature), have arisen before. Earlier debate on border tax adjustments occurred at the time of the adoption of the value-added tax (VAT) in the EU as a tax harmonisation target in the early 1960s. But academic literature of the time showed that a change between origin and destination basis in the VAT would be neutral and hence the use of a destination-based tax in the EU to accompany the VAT offered no trade advantage to Europe. Here we argue that essentially the same arguments also apply for carbon-motivated BTAs, and in the current debate there seems to be a misconception between price-level effects and relative price effects stemming from a BTA, which needs correcting. We also argue that the impact of border tax adjustments should be viewed as independent of the motivation of the adjustments. Copyright 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' In this article we discuss the global negotiations now underway and aimed at achieving new climate change mitigation and other arrangements after 2012 (the end of the Kyoto commitment period). These were initiated in Bali in December 2007 and are scheduled to conclude by the end of 2009 in Copenhagen. As such, this negotiation is effectively the second round in ongoing global negotiations on climate change and further rounds will almost certainly follow. We highlight both the vast scope and vagueness of the negotiating mandate, the many outstanding major issues to be accommodated between negotiating parties, the lack of a mechanism to force collective decision making in the negotiation, and their short time frame. The likely lack of compliance with prior Kyoto commitments by several OECD countries (some to a major degree), the effective absence in Kyoto of compliance/enforcement mechanisms, and growing linkage to non-climate change areas (principally trade) all further complicate the task of bringing the negotiation to conclusion. The major clearage we see that needs to be bridged in the negotiations is between OECD countries on the one hand, and lower wage, large population, rapidly growing countries (China, India, Russia, Brazil) on the other. (JEL codes: F33, F51, F53, Q54, Q56, P28) Copyright , Oxford University Press.'] ['We discuss biases in preferences and their trade effects in terms of impacts on non-neutral trade flows motivated by recent literature on both home bias and the border effect. These terms take on multiple definitions in the literature and are often used interchangeably even though they differ. The border effect refers to a higher proclivity to trade behind rather than across national borders and is usually defined by the coefficients of regional dummies from an estimated gravity model. It can be present both in data and in counterfactual model solutions. Sometimes the reduced form of the gravity model used is asserted to reflect an Armington type model. For the border effect to occur as a model outcome, a structural model with at least 2 home regions and 1 country abroad is needed. In contrast to current literature, we offer a characterization of various forms of preference bias in trade models and measures of their associated trade effects based on a concept we term trade neutrality. These effects go beyond conventional border effects, and can be both across and within borders. Home bias is typically specified as an Armington preference for domestic over comparable foreign products in a trade model where goods are heterogeneous across countries. It is reflected in both model structure and parameterization, but defined in several different ways in the literature. We assess the contribution of each form of bias to the set of possible trade effects using a calibrated model with 3 Canadian regions, the U.S., and the rest of the world using 2001 data. We also evaluate how much of the conventional border effect is accounted for when model biases are modified in various ways.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Current literature based on analyses of rural income volatility in China decompose poverty into chronic and transient components using longitudinal survey data and assesses the fraction of the Foster, Greer, and Thorbecke poverty gap attributable to mean income over time being below the poverty line. Resulting estimates of 40--50% transient poverty point to the policy conclusion that poverty may be a less serious social problem than it appears in annual data due to rural income volatility. Here, we instead use a direct method to adjust rural income for volatility using a certainty equivalent income measure and recomputed summary statistics for the distribution of volatility corrected incomes, including the urban--rural income gap on which much of current poverty debate in China focuses. Available data indicate a growing urban--rural income gap (the ratio of mean urban to rural incomes) with a significant increase from around 1.8 in the late-1980s to over three today. These estimates do not take into account the higher volatility of rural incomes in China. Since an uncertain income stream is worth less in utility terms than a certain income stream, we argue that heightened rural volatility increases the effective urban--rural income gap and intensifies not weakens poverty concerns. Using Chinese longitudinal rural survey data for which current decompositions can be replicated, we make adjustments for certainty equivalence of rural household income streams, which not only widen the urban--rural income gap in China but also increase other distributional summary statistics. Depending upon values used for the coefficient of relative risk aversion, the measured urban--rural income gap increases by 20--30% using a certainty equivalent measure to adjust rural incomes for volatility. We also conduct similar analysis using consumption data, for which similar (but slightly larger) increases occur. (JEL codes: D00, D31, D81,G11, N55, O12; O15; R20) Copyright The Author 2009. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Ifo Institute for Economic Research, Munich. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org, Oxford University Press.'] [' We discuss the redistribution effects of transfer using a conditional-choice general equilibrium model. We calibrate it to UK data for the early 2000s. Results indicate that a money-metric measure of the welfare value of transfer received by the bottom decile of UK households equals 17% of the cash transfer. Copyright (c) The London School of Economics and Political Science 2008.'] ['Little of the literature from economists on climate change has focused on how accelerating climate change will affect economic structure, and the consequences which follow. Here we analyze the medium- to long-term implications of global warming for global financial structure. Stern (2007) suggests that greenhouse gas emissions generated by human activities could lead to global temperature increases of between 1 and 5\xc2\xb0C by 2050. This will result in a large increase in global risk of extreme weather events, changing crop yields, sea level rise, and adverse health effects. Part of this risk, while uncertain, is non-diversifiable; but the other part, while diversifiable, is difficult for conventional insurance arrangements to accommodate. No established pattern of location or feature specific risks exists that are comparable to annual mortality tables for life cover. Insurance arrangements regulated on a national basis pose further possible problems. The response, we suggest, will be global financial market innovation primarily in the area of insurance, but also in diversification of asset holdings. Pressures will also build for a very large increase in government provided insurance. We suggest in this paper that, even with modest climate changes of 1 to 2\xc2\xb0C, global insurance markets will expand dramatically. Under more extreme climate change scenarios, the entire global financial structure will undergo major change, with a refocusing of major financial activity away from intermediation between borrowers and lenders and the facilitation of the accumulation of assets, towards a focus on insurance arrangements and the diversification of risks associated with climate change. This will likely involve new contingent instruments, new issuers and financial institutions, and extensive government involvement.'] [' We consider a representative family in which there are location specific network effects from interactions with other family members, such as joint consumption, joint emotional support and coinsurance. The benefits an individual receives from the network they participate in are nonlinearly related to the number of family members located in urban and rural areas. Family members choose whether to locate in urban or rural areas and average and marginal network benefits differ. In a model with internationally traded urban and rural produced goods, with differential network effects in urban and rural areas free trade will no longer be the best policy. We show this through a numerical example, and suggest that the case for free trade may need to be more nuanced once social considerations of this type are taken into account.'] ['This paper looks at a further option which thus far appears not to have entered the debate on the long-standing issue of interprovincial barriers. Labelled the subnational World Trade Organization (WTO) approach, it is based on the simple idea of seeking the agreement of the Canadian provinces (and WTO members) to extend existing WTO disciplines to the provincial level. This implies that the principles of Most Favoured Nation and National Treatment, as well as of WTO dispute settlement, would apply directly to interprovincial trade in goods and services through the 1994 General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, and that the framework of the General Agreement on Trade and Services would allow for scheduling of commitments, including on labour mobility under mode 4. The Agreements on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures would also apply, as would all other WTO agreements.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper discusses a central element in globalisation debate little addressed by economists, namely the interactions at global, national and community levels between globalisation and societally based values. Social values refer to wider notions of collective identity; religious values, attitudes towards materialism, moral beliefs, and a sense of collective awareness and are a broader and more encompassing concept than social capital discussed in recent economics and sociology literature. Social capital relates to trust, honesty and the social fabric of accepted norms central to the successful implementation of individual optimising decisions and denotes a communal asset reflecting strength of joint collective commitment whose amount can be increased or improved upon through investment of time and resources. Social values are much discussed in sociological literature going back to Comte, Durkheim, Parsons, and others. The issues taken up here are how different social values might interact and change as societies and their economies integrate (globalise). Processes of value competition, displacement and joint assimilation occur naturally to economists, but seem little studied by sociologists who seemingly place less stress on analytical comparative statics. Scenarios for how values can interact under globalisation are discussed in the text. Copyright 2007 The Author. Journal compilation Blackwell Publishing Ltd. 2007.'] ['We analyze the economic costs of national security related border delays in a Baumol-Tobin inventory theoretic framework. We show that there are social costs induced by behavioural responses to the delays, in addition to time costs at the border.'] [' Recent years have seen a sharp growth in the number of regional agreements both concluded and under negotiation. This paper attempts to document and discuss this growth focusing on US, EU, Chinese, Indian and other agreements. The form, coverage and content of these agreements vary considerably from case to case. The paper asks why so many, why the variation in form, and why the recent acceleration. Implications for the trading system are discussed in a final section. Copyright 2008 The Author.'] ["We explore the implications of trade liberalization in economies with State Owned enterprises (SOEs) and shirking. SOEs are modelled as controlled by the members of the enterprise who determine output and effort levels, while facing output prices and wage rates set by government. Enterprise members must collectively meet a budget constraint that the value of sales equals the enterprise wage bill plus an exogenous enterprise commitment to the state budget. Labour can shirk either through low on the job effort (leisure), or through moonlighting to second jobs in the private sector. Three alternative formulations of equilibria in SOE economies are explored, and in these trade liberalization can produce effects opposite from conventional competitive models. In particular, the output of import competing SOEs increases rather than falls, and negative effects on imports can also occur. These models when calibrated to 1995 data for Vietnam also suggest quantitatively much larger impacts from trade liberalization than is the case for comparable conventional competitive models. This is because departures from Pareto optimality in SOE economies can be large and trade liberalization acts to discipline shirking associated with these inefficiencies. The implication we draw from our analysis is that to evaluate policy initiatives, such as trade liberalization, in developing and transition economies without explicitly recognizing the role that SOE's can play may be misleading. This is especially the case where SOEs account for a significant fraction of economic activity and shirking is involved.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['We discuss global options for initiatives intended to ameliorate adverse impacts of visa and work permit systems used by national governments around the world. We first describe and document some of their effects, noting the relative lack of other research work on these issues. We then discuss proposals for a new and supplemental global visa structure which have been made as part of the Mode 4 GATS negotiations in the WTO, suggesting that the GATS/WTO may be an imperfect institutional location for negotiating on these matters. We then evaluate other approaches, including what realistically could be possible if a new body specifically created for global negotiation in the area were to be used.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper takes as its point of departure the claim in the literature that strong Asian growth performance is accounted for largely by the accumulation of factor inputs (financial savings and human capital accumulation). This stands in sharp contrast to Polanyi\xe2\x80\x99s (1944) interpretation of European growth being a \xe2\x80\x9cgreat transformation\xe2\x80\x9d from an agricultural to an industrial economy. Our objective is to find models in which intersectoral transfers in Asia do account for significant portions of observed growth performance, besides factor input growth and residually calculated productivity growth. We begin with traditional Lewis models, where an efficiency gain results from transferring labour from the traditional (family based) agricultural sector, in which labour receives its average product, to the modern (industrial) sector in which labourers are paid their marginal product. We show that as one moves closer to Pareto Optimality in this system (say bytaxing the traditional sector\xe2\x80\x99s output), there is a gain but this is typically small. We then formulate Lewis type models in which the product of effort and labour enters each sector\xe2\x80\x99s production function, and individuals in the traditional sector only receive a fraction of the return to their incremental effort due to average product pricing of labour. In this case, the level of effort in each sector, is endogenously determined along with the intersectoral allocation of labour, since the representative household is modeled as having a utility function defined over goods along with the disutility of effort. Differences in effort levels across sectors support accompanying differences in average and marginal products of labour. We use this model to analyze growth processes in Thailand and South Korea over the period between the 1960s and 1990s. Results suggest significant contributions to growth from intersectoral labour transfers in Lewis models with endogenous effort, and negligible contributions from models without endogenous effort'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We discuss recent cases of Chinese buyout activity in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD; especially in the United States and European Union) in resource and manufacturing sectors. While most of the buyout attempts have been unsuccessful, they serve as a catalyst for a wider discussion on the implications for global arrangements for cross-border acquisitions. Three specific issues ar e raised. The first is subsidization through low- or no-interest loans by the Chinese Central Bank to companies investing abroad. The second is the transparency of entities involved in buyout attempts. Most Chinese companies have close ties to multiple levels of government and are not subject to the standard reporting required of OECD companies. The third involves national security concerns in OECD countries and the possibility of China acquiring sensitive technology when Chinese companies purchase companies abroad . These issues have not been addressed in existing OECD and World Trade Organization investment policy initiatives, and have yet to be discussed in the global forum.'] ['We discuss recent regional trade and economic partnership agreements involving the large population rapidly growing economies (Brazil, Russia, China, India, South Africa, ASEAN, Mexico) who (with the exception of Mexico) are also outside of the OECD. Perhaps 50 out of 300 that exist worldwide now involve BRICSAM countries and most are recently concluded and to be implemented over the next few years. Along with extensive bilateral investment treaties, mutual recognition agreements, and other country (or region) to country arrangement they are part of what we term the non-WTO. We are able to find little literature on these agreements, and our aim is to document and characterize, as much as analyze possible impacts. We note the sharp variation both across countries in the form that agreements take and also across agreements for individual countries. Agreements differ in specificity, coverage and content. In some treaties there are detailed and specific commitments, but these also coexist with seemingly vague commitments and (at times) opaque dispute settlement and enforcement. Whether these represent a partial replacement of WTO process for new negotiated reciprocity-based global trade liberalization over the next decade or so, or largely represent diplomatic protocol alongside significant WTO disciplines is the issue we discuss.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['AbstractThis paper uses computational techniques to assess whether or not various propositions that have been advanced as plausible in the literature on regional trade agreements may actually hold. The idea is to make probabilistic statements as to whether propositions of interest might hold, rather than to restrict assumptions so they unambiguously hold. Our aim is to blend theory and numerical simulation and go beyond the ambiguous analytically derived propositions that dominate the theoretical literature so as to assess the likelihood of propositions holding for particular model specifications.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In theoretical literature it is common to make the assumption that in a multi-country, multi-good world, the direction of trade (import and export by commodity) is predetermined and fixed for each good for each country. We consider a simple three-country, three-good, pure-exchange model with CES preferences. We compute free trade competitive equilibria, three-country non-cooperative Nash equilibria, and customs union equilibria for randomised parameterizations, and find that trade pattern changes between free trade and customs union equilibria in around 35% of cases.'] [" This article discusses China's trade policy stance following World Trade Organization (WTO) accession in 2002. The issues now for China are less the merits of WTO accession, and more how her global trade policies are cast given WTO membership. Three issues are taken up. The first is the extent to which WTO accession helps China in dealing with various key trade issues, including anti-dumping, and textiles and apparel trade. The second is China's participation in regional trade agreements post-WTO accession. The third is the implementability of China's accession commitments in the key service areas (banking, insurance, telecoms). (JEL: F10) Copyright 2006, Oxford University Press."] [' If two disjoint country service networks involving a small and large country are connected as part of international liberalization in the presence of network externalities, the per capita gain for the small country from access to a large network will be large, and the per capita gain for the large country will be small. In contrast to goods, the benefits of liberalization in network-related services are more likely to be approximately equally divided between large and small countries than is true of trade in goods, where benefits accrue disproportionately to the small country. We also argue that non-cooperation in network-related services trade may involve more extreme retaliation than suggested for trade in goods by the optimal tariff literature, so that relative to a non-cooperative outcome, gains from liberalization in network-related services become larger than from liberalization in goods. We develop simple models which we use for numerical examples showing these points, along with an empirical implementation for global telecoms liberalization for the US, Europe, Canada, and the rest of the world using the framework developed in the paper. This shows similar proportional gains to regions, consistent with the theme of the paper that goods and services liberalization differ. Copyright \xef\xbf\xbd 2006 The Authors; Journal compilation \xef\xbf\xbd 2006 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper discusses the recent regional trade agreements that China has concluded rapidly following accession to the WTO in 2002. Agreements are in place with Hong Kong, Macao, ASEAN, Australia and New Zealand, and are either in negotiation or under discussion with South Africa, Chile, India and the Gulf Cooperation Council. These agreements differ sharply in form and substance, and involve process commitments to ongoing negotiation and cooperation on a wide range of issues. Differences relating to the regional agreements negotiated by the EU and the US are emphasised, as are later potential difficulties these agreements create in moving to an Asian trade bloc centred on them. Copyright 2005 Blackwell Publishing Ltd..'] [' Irving Fisher wrote a significant number of papers towards the end of his career on the design of the U.S. tax system. These writings culminated in a book that he wrote with his brother Herbert in 1942. Fisher thought that the double taxation of saving under an income tax was extremely harmful to the economy and he therefore proposed a "spendings" tax or what he referred to as a "real income" tax. Even though he disliked the terminology, he advocated what today would be referred to as a progressive consumption tax. Fisher\'s analysis was both theoretical and practical. His 1942 book contained a proposed tax return that implemented his ideas. His analysis is surprisingly modern and relevant today. This paper presents the Fisher proposal and examines the current U.S. tax system in light of his tax views. We argue that Fisher would find that the U.S. tax system lacks intellectual coherence, is economically inefficient, and unnecessarily complex. Copyright 2005 American Journal of Economics and Sociology, Inc..'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper discusses the potential impacts of services trade liberalisation on developing countries and reviews existing quantitative studies. Its purpose is to distill themes from current literature rather than to advocate specific policy changes. The picture emerging is one of valiant attempts to quantify in the presence of formidable analytical and data problems yielding only a clouded image of likely impacts on trade, consumption, production and welfare emerging to the point that the policy implications of results are not always clear. Copyright 2004 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] [' Using a general-equilibrium model of world trade, this paper evaluates the benefits of most-favored-nation (MFN) treatment to developing countries in multilateral relative to bilateral or regional trade agreements, from three sources. First, developing countries may be able to free-ride on bilateral tariff concessions exchanged between larger countries in MFN-based GATT/WTO rounds. Second, MFN benefits developing countries by restricting discriminatory retaliatory actions by other countries, evaluated here by a non- cooperative Nash tariff game. Finally, MFN changes threat points in bargaining and hence affects the bargaining solution of multilateral MFN-based trade negotiation compared to a bilateral/regional arrangement. The authors find that the benefits to developing countries are small in the first case as the tariff rates are already low, and the benefits are small in the second case as the optimal tariffs under unconstrained retaliation are not very asymmetric. Benefits from the third case are large as large countries can extract large side-payments if they bargain bilaterally. Copyright Blackwell Publishing Ltd 2003.'] ["Standard international trade models have consistently produced results that, compared ex post with real world data, show the right sign but much smaller magnitudes. Besides, for the case of developing countries, these same models predict that unskilled labour would gain from liberalization, and this too contrasts with empirical evidence. This paper proposes a new approach by considering transaction costs reductions as an important factor explaining developing countries' actual performances."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We compare the welfare costs of tax distortions of labor supply in one- and two-member household discrete and continuous choice labor supply (leisure consumption) models calibrated to the same aggregate uncompensated labor supply elasticities. In the discrete models, taxes induce a large response from a subset of the population, whereas the majority of the population exhibits unchanged behavior. In contrast, the majority of the population reacts to tax changes in continuous models. Discrete choice matters as the welfare costs of similar taxes vary significantly when individuals face discrete labor supply choices from when they choose working hours continuously. Copyright 2003 By The Economics Department Of The University Of Pennsylvania And Osaka University Institute Of Social And Economic Research Association.'] ['Trade and wages literature asks whether trade or technology has been the major factor behind increases in wage inequality in OECD countries since the 1980s. In this literature, little attention has been paid to how goods market responses to trade shocks affect conclusions. Using an Armington heterogeneous goods trade model we capture demand side effects, and show how trade shocks affecting the price of unskilled-intensive importable goods can be absorbed on the demand side of goods markets, with little or no impact on relative wage rates. No wage impact occurs if the elasticity of substitution in preferences between imports and import substitutes is one. As this elasticity increases, trade plays an ever larger role in explaining wage inequality changes, and as the elasticity goes below one the sign of the effect changes. We present some results of general equilibrium decompositions of total wage change into trade and technology components using UK data. We suggest that since many import demand elasticity estimates are in the neighbourhood of one, there is a prima facie case that goods market considerations further lower the significance of trade as an explanation of recent trends in OECD wage inequality beyond that claimed in the literature.'] [" Since the Earth Summit in Rio 1992, several calls have been made for a world environmental organisation (WEO), and only during the last year, in the run-up to Rio&amp;plus;10, five more have been added. In total, we have found 17 proposals for a WEO. We review, compare, and briefly discuss rationales, models, tasks, organisational set-up, relations to multilateral environmental agreements (MEAs) and organisations such as UNEP and the WTO, as well as the role of principles, compliance and the interest of developing countries. We conclude that a majority of proposers is in favour of an autonomous coordinating agency, that is, a medium level of integration. Frequently the WTO is mentioned as a precursor agency on which a WEO should be based. We question the effectiveness of a 'WTO for the environment' and suggest that other models ought to be considered. Copyright Blackwell Publishers Ltd 2002."] ['We evaluate efficiency considerations underlying the widespread exemption of food from sales and value added taxes and the implications for tax policy. Household and restaurant meals and both constant and increasing returns cases are examined. Higher taxes on food offset the non-taxation of time inputs into household production, even under constant returns to scale. With increasing returns, gains from taxing food are higher and amplified by subsidizing restaurant food and all marginal cost components of restaurant meals. On efficiency grounds, exemption of food from sales and value added taxes emerges as socially costly policy, especially under increasing returns.'] [' We evaluate the possibilities for a new World Environmental Organisation (WEO), with our discussion motivated both by recent calls for such an organisation in light of WTO trade and environment conflicts and the relative absence of internalisation of global externalities. We propose an organisation building upon the idea of facilitating Coasian deal on the global environment. We motivate the establishment of such an organisation by itemising the ways in which global environmental deals are presently restrained by various impediments, including free riding, property right ambiguities, and mechanisms for authentification and verification. We indicate how such a WEO might help in each of these areas, stressing the differences from the WTO which is a much narrower bargaining framework. Copyright Blackwell Publishers Ltd 2002.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We develop a general equilibrium tax model to evaluate the impacts of equal yield base broadening in indirect taxes from high rate narrow based (typically manufactures) taxes to broad based taxes (including services) such as a VAT. We capture differences in choice of mode of supply between market goods, such as manufactures, which cannot be supplied other than through the market, and self-suppliable services and informal sector supplied products. Using this formulation, we are able to provide numerical examples of welfare worsening VAT base broadening, which expands the tax base from market based manufactures, in which there are few (or no) non taxed supply possibilities, to all goods and services where such possibilities exist. We show that the usual presumption that there are welfare benefits from equal yield VAT base broadening breaks down once tax induced increases in self supply of previously non taxed goods and services and in informal sector activity (in small scale construction and other areas) are taken into account. Moreover, since untaxed informal sector supply is typically from lower income to higher income households, they gain as comparable informal sector activity is taxed under the base broadening change. We provide a calibrated version of the model, which captures Canadian base broadening accompanying the introduction of the Canadian VAT (GST) in 1990. Results show the change to have been welfare worsening in aggregate but progressive; opposite to conventional belief. Aggregate welfare losses increase sharply if pre-existing income taxes enter the analysis, since VAT induced supply side losses compound with the income tax, while consumption side tax rate variance reducing gains do not<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This article evaluates the case for a new World Environmental Organization. It suggests that the main purpose of such an institution could be to accomplish the internalization of global environmental externalities which, for a variety of reasons, has not been achieved to any significant degree in recent decades. This stands in contrast to recent proposals that call for a mere strengthening of existing global arrangements. The benefits of this approach, as well as some of its problems, such as ambiguous property rights, are discussed. Copyright (c) 2001 Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ['Several of the recently negotiated regional trade agreements contain significantly fewer concessions by the large countries to smaller countries than vice versa. In this paper, we compute post-retaliation Nash tariffs by region under various regional trade arrangements using a calibrated numerical general equilibrium model of world trade. Regional agreements constrain strategic behaviour within each trading area, and (in the Customs Union case) enhance it outside the bloc. Results confirm the intuition that without side payments large-small country regional agreements (such as the Canada-U.S. agreement) would not have occurred.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper uses a calibrated general equilibrium model to decompose observed wage changes from trade and technology shocks into portions attributable to each source. It highlights some difficulties with the numerical performance of widely used theoretical trade structures. For small economies, the Heckscher-Ohlin model reveals specialization problems unless the price changes accompanying trade shocks are small. It can also yield strikingly different decompositions of the same wage change. A differentiated-goods model removes specialization problems and accommodates large price changes, but introduces demand-side responses greatly reducing the effect of trade on wages, and performs implausibly with sector-biased technical change. Copyright 2000 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper discusses how environmental considerations will affect tax policy in the decades ahead. It argues that in the future, interactions between tax and environmental policy are likely to go well beyond recent discussion of double dividend issues and internalization of environmental externalities via tax policy will be the goal, which inevitably will involve the particular rather than the general. As a result, notions of neutrality which dominate current thinking on tax design will come under challenge; and in ways which will go well beyond current discussion of special treatment for particular goods and industries on environmental grounds. Special treatment of methods of production, more so than of goods, will be the name of the game. Moreover, the informational requirements of such an approach to tax policy are likely to be large. The paper concludes by pointing out that if environmental quality, as many suppose, is a luxury good with income elasticity of demand greater than one, then high income households will gain disproportionately from internalization of the externalities at issue. This may fuel pressures for more redistribution elsewhere in the tax system than is currently the case.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['Conventional accounts of justice suppose the presence of a stable political society, stable identities, and a Westphalian cartography of clear lines of authority--usually a state--where justice can be realised. They also assume a stable soc al bond. But what if, in an age of globalisation, the territorial boundaries of politics unbundle and a stable social bond deteriorates? How then are we to think about justice? Can there be justice in a world where that bond is constantly being disrupted or transformed by globalisation? Thus the paper argues that we need to think about the relationship between globalisation, governance and justice. It does so in three stages: (i) It explains how, under conditions of globalisation, assumptions made about the social bond are changing. (ii) It demonsrates how strains on the social bond within states give rise to a search for newer forms of global political theory and organisation and the emergence of new global (non state) actors which contest with states over the policy agendas emanating from globalisation. (iii) Despite the new forms of activity identified at (ii) the paper concludes that the prospects for a satisfactory synthesis of a liberal economic theory of globalisation, a normative political theory of the global public domain and a new social bond are remote.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Whether and how to tax financial intermediation services is unclear because individual preferences are not defined directly over financial services, but only over the goods that are consumed. Intermediation services facilitate consumption but do not directly provide utility. In this paper, we show how taxing goods alone (but not financial services) can be welfare preferred to taxing both goods and financial services on an equal-yield basis and at a lower rate in a general equilibrium model with transactions costs. This is consistent with Foley's (1970) and Hahn's (1971) well-known treatments of general equilibrium with transactions costs which suggest that the two fundamental theorems of welfare economics may not hold in such circumstances. Use of more intermediation services yields gains from trade, but reduces resources available for provision of other (consumption) goods. We explore the net effect first using a numerical example, and then using U.S. data, drawing out implications for policy."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper numerically investigates the significance of rents for both the welfare costs and the optimal design of commodity taxes using a general-equilibrium model calibrated to 1986 Canadian data. In the data we use, Ricardian rents are concentrated in agriculture and utilities, with market structure rents concentrated in manufacturing. Different types of rents have different implications for the welfare cost of taxes, and hence also for appropriate tax design. Ricardian rents lower the cost of taxes; rents supported by imperfect competition (with no free entry) raise the cost of taxes; rents supported by regulation generate rent-seeking costs, and if taxed improve resource allocation. Model results show a markedly nonuniform optimal tax structure, and a substantial influence of the treatment of rents on the pattern of optimal tax rates by commodity. \xc2\xa9 1998 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper presents some general equilibrium calculations for Cote d'Ivoire which explore the significance of tax structure for the relationship between external shocks and revenue instability, an issue until recently little explored in the literature, either for Cote d'Ivoire or other developing countries. Results suggest that a low-rate broadly based value-added tax, as advocated by the World Bank in its structural adjustment lending, may be a poor revenue stabilizer compared with existing trade-based tax regimes in many lower-income commodity exporting countries. With high trade taxes, the external sector is smaller, and external sector shocks generate less revenue instability under existing arrangements compared with a broadly based yield-neutral alternative, such as a VAT. Copyright 1997 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper challenges the conventional wisdom that, on efficiency grounds, taxing individuals is always preferred to taxing households in a progressive income tax. The reason is that tax design affects the input of family members' time not only into market production and consumption of leisure but into household production as well. A simple numerical example is used to illustrate this possibility and a general equilibrium model calibrated to Australian data suggests that such a result can occur for actual tax structures in use. Copyright 1996 by University of Chicago Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper suggests that schemes used within developing countries to allocate textile export quota among domestic producers typically have more severe negative effects on developing-country economic performance than the MFA export quotas themselves. We summarize allocation schemes in 16 countries highlighting common "lock-in" and "rent-dissipation" effects of such schemes. We then use a global general-equilibrium model to evaluate the effects of MFA removal with and without these additional effects. Results indicate that estimates of gains to developing countries from an MFA removal increase sharply when internal quota-allocation schemes are taken into account. Copyright 1995 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper presents some estimates of international trade in banking services. The authors use IMF data on assets and liabilities of both domestic banks and nonbanks with foreign banks, and of foreigners with the domestic banking system to construct measures of the volume of transactions on which banking intermediation services are provided across national borders. They then use estimates of the spread between borrowing and lending rates for depositors and borrowers with the financial institutions involved to estimate the value of international flows of intermediation services. Estimates are presented for 1982-84 and 1991-93 for the United States, the United Kingdom, and Canada. Copyright 1995 by The International Association for Research in Income and Wealth.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper attempts to shed some light on what the incentives are for international participation in 'sub-global' carbon reduction initiatives. We use a six-region global general equilibrium trade and carbon emission model recently used by Whalley and Wigle to analyze the international incidence effects of various global carbon tax schemes. Here we modify this model so as to also capture the benefit side of reduced global warming by including emission reduction in the specification of preferences in each region. This change in model structure allows us to examine the strength of the incentives for sub-global arrangements to form with the aim of achieving reduced carbon emissions. Because there are no reliable estimates of the benefits from slowed global warming, we have adopted a procedure of evaluating incentives for any sub-global arrangements to be used relative to a reference point: 50 percent global emission reduction target, as in the 1988 Toronto call, is assumed to represent a full-participation global optimum, in which the sum of marginal country benefits from further global abatement exactly balance marginal country costs from further reductions in sue of carbon-based energy. A number of interesting points emerge from our calculations. Incentives for the larger regions to engage in unilateral emission reductions (including the U.S. which accounts for nearly 25 percent of global emissions) are surprisingly strong (more than half the assumed optimal 50% global reduction). The optimal reduction increases further when pairs of regions who each provide emission reduction benefits to the other are considered (more than 35 percent for North America and Europe). Also, terms-of-trade effects from such cuts help energy importers and amplify (in some cases substantially) the benefits to them of reduced emissions from slowed global warming. But both production and consumption-based cuts create spillover effects stimulating production or consumption in other regions, s<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' A central issue in the analysis of public goods is the relationship between the optimal provision level and the distribution of income. Theoretical research has stressed the conditions under which the optimum is independent of the distribution of income. Here we focus on numerical analysis of more policy-relevant concerns. Specifically, to what extent is a given redistribution of income likely to affect the optimal level of public good supply? And how significant are the welfare costs of not adjusting public good supply when income distribution changes? We use an applied general equilibrium (AGE) model of the Australian economy and public sector to generate numerical estimates of the impacts of redistributive policies on these variables. Results suggest that the traditional separation of allocation and distribution in determining the level of public good supply may be a justifiable empirical simplification, except where very dramatic redistributions are invovled.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Misleading conclusions can be drawn from studies of tax incidence that ignore the special features of developing countries. Incorporating these features can sometimes reverse the incidence pattern of taxes relative to what is often taken to be conventional wisdom. Even where patterns are not reversed, quantitative differences can be substantial. The "newer" views of incidence have implications for tax restructuring options being considered in several developing countries. The proposed restructuring may appear to lead only to a more regressive tax system, because of improper incidence analysis. Copyright 1991 by Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper starts from the premise that attempts to curtail global emissions of greenhouse gases are likely to be made in the next few decades. We discuss some of the possible international effects which could result from attempts to achieve such a cutback, and illustrate a methodology which we hope to extend, in subsequent work, to further evaluating the consequences of responding to the problem of global warming. We identify possible magnitudes of effects of cutting global CO2 emissions, and illustrate ways in which intercountry terms-of-trade effects and changes in trade patterns may occur.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper presents a computational general equilibrium framework for evaluating the welfare costs associated with economy-wide price controls. Other than traditional commodity-specific partial equilibrium analyses, most empirical literature on price controls concentrates on macroeconomic issues, such as the impact on inflation and unemployment. Here the authors seek to reorient empirical literature on the effects of these controls toward efficiency losses from resource misallocation by providing a framework that can be used to address the issue of how large these economic inefficiencies are, and who gains and who loses from them. Copyright 1990 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper uses an applied general equilibrium model to analyze the impacts of quota and tariff restrictions used by developed countries against textile and clothing imports from developing countries. In the model, countries are represented by their actual size in terms of GDP, weakening rent transfer effects compared to partial equilibrium analysis. Results, based on 1986 data, suggest annual global gains from elimination of quotas and tariffs of around $23 billion. In aggregate, developing countries gain around $8 billion, suggesting that gains to developing countries from improved access more than offset losses from foregone rent transfers as quotas and tariffs are abolished. Copyright 1990 by Royal Economic Society.'] [" This paper presents a method for assessing the relative importance of price increases and strengthened individual incentives due to the introduction of the responsibility system for the post-1978 increase in China's agricultural productivity. Data on post-1978 Chinese agricultural performance suggest that a little over three-quarters of the measured productivity increase is due to payment system changes and the remainder to price increases. The authors also use their method to calculate incentive indices, giving an estimate of the fraction of their marginal product that peasants received under the pre-1978 regime. Copyright 1989 by University of Chicago Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The current indirect tax system in Canada distorts economic activity in a variety of ways and has been the subject of considerable discussion as part of overall tax reform. In this paper, a general equilibrium model is used to analyze various changes in indirect taxes in Canada, focusing on possible changes to the federal and provincial sales taxes. Results suggest that replacing either the federal or provincial sales taxes with a broadly-based sales tax yields a small, but significant, welfare gain. The distributional effects from these changes are slightly regressive, but appear to be quite small and easily offset by modest income tax credits targeted to low-income households. Results also suggest that a broad-based sales tax would be a significantly more efficient revenue source, should additional sales tax revenues be required.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper reports on an applied general equilibrium regional model for Canada which is used to investigate the regional effects of taxes. Earlier, literature on regional tax effects is reviewed and the main features of the model are briefly described. Existing literature on regional tax effects is largely non-quantitative, and does not discuss several important regional features of taxes, such as taxes which are predominantly on products or industries located in particular regions. Results suggest that regional effects of taxes can be significant, and in the Canadian case at least, do not tend to counterbalance one another. In general, richer regions tend to lose and poorer regions gain from federal taxes, but other regional characteristics such as manufacturing/non-manufacturing, or resource/non-resource can be important.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper evaluates calculations of net fiscal incidence, using an applied general equilibrium model of Australia into which public goods are incorporated. Results indicate that it is inappropriate to regard the redistributive impacts of government policies as a zero sum game. For large reductions in public goods provision and taxes, the dominant effect is the foregone consumer surplus from suboptimal public goods provision. In addition, the redistributive pattern of small charges are quite different from large charges. Marginal and average net fiscal incidence, thus, need to be clearly separated, a point not emphasized in existing literature. Copyright 1987 by MIT Press.'] [' This paper contains a brief summary of the nature of domestic policies and international agreements in agriculture, and an outline of a simple computable gene ral equilibrium model of the grain market. Preliminary results presen ted here suggest that the gains from global liberalization in agricul ture could exceed the gains from further liberalization on trade in m anufactured goods by the developed world. Copyright 1987 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper examines the welfare consequences of changing the current U.S. income tax system to a progressive consumption tax. We compute a sequence of single period equilibria in which savings decisions depend on the expected future return to capital. In the presence of existing income taxes, the U.S. economy is assumed to lie on a balanced growth path. With the change to a consumption tax, individuals save more and initially consume less. As the capital stock grows, consumption eventually overtakes that of the original path, and the economy approaches the new balanced growth path with higher consumption and a greater capital stock. Both the transition and the balanced growth paths enter our welfare evaluations. We find that the discounted present value of the stream of net gains is approximately $650 billion in 1973 dollars, just over one percent of the discounted present value of national income. Larger gains occur if further reform of capital income taxation accompanies the change. We examine the sensitivity of the results, both to the design of the consumption tax and to the values of elasticity and other parameters. The paper also contains estimates of the time required to adjust from one growth path to the other.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']