 ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['A model is proposed in which stochastic choice results from noise in cognitive processing rather than random variation in preferences. The mental process used to make a choice is nonetheless optimal, subject to a constraint on available information-processing capacity that is motivated by neurophysiological evidence. The optimal information-constrained model is found to offer a better fit to experimental data on choice frequencies and reaction times than either a purely mechanical process model of choice (the drift-diffusion model) or an optimizing model with fewer constraints on feasible choice processes (the rational inattention model).'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The article presents a temporary equilibrium framework for macroeconomic analysis that allows for a wide range of possible specifications of expectations but reduces to a standard new Keynesian model in the limiting case of rational expectations. This common framework is then used to contrast the assumptions and implications of several different ways of relaxing the assumption of rational expectations. As an illustration of the method, the implications of alternative assumptions for the selection of a monetary policy rule are discussed. Other issues treated include the conditions required for Ricardian equivalence and for existence of a deflation trap.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We consider a general class of nonlinear optimal policy problems with forward-looking constraints, and show how to derive a problem with linear constraints and a quadratic objective that approximates the exact problem. The solution to the LQ approximate problem represents a local linear approximation to optimal policy from the \xe2\x80\x9ctimeless perspective\xe2\x80\x9d proposed in Benigno and Woodford (2004, 2005) [6,7], in the case of small enough stochastic disturbances. We also derive the second-order conditions for the LQ problem to have a solution, and show how to correctly rank alternative simple policy rules, again in the case of small enough shocks.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The paper proposes a theory of efficient perceptual distortions, in which the statistical relation between subjective perceptions and the objective state minimizes the error of the state estimate, subject to a constraint on information processing capacity. The theory is shown to account for observed limits to the accuracy of visual perception, and then postulated to apply to perception of options in economic choice situations as well. When applied to choice between lotteries, it implies reference-dependent valuations, and predicts both risk-aversion with respect to gains and risk-seeking with respect to losses, as in the prospect theory of Kahneman and Tversky (1979).'] ['The article is a response to a polemical essay of J. Kay and his critique of macroeconomic modeling. The author shows that models are an indispensable instrument of economic analysis and that the only alternative would be the formulation and estimation of structural relationships between macroeconomic aggregates. But such a project is doomed to failure, because it does not account for the expectations of economic agents. However, as the author admits, the critique of rational expectations concept is justified. He shows possible directions that a more realistic analysis of ecpectation could take.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We consider optimal monetary stabilization policy in a New Keynesian model with explicit microfoundations, when the central bank recognizes that private-sector expectations need not be precisely model-consistent, and wishes to choose a policy that will be as good as possible in the case of any beliefs close enough to model-consistency. We show how to characterize robustly optimal policy without restricting consideration a priori to a particular parametric family of candidate policy rules. We show that robustly optimal policy can be implemented through commitment to a target criterion involving only the paths of inflation and a suitably defined output gap, but that a concern for robustness requires greater resistance to surprise increases in inflation than would be considered optimal if one could count on the private sector to have \xe2\x80\x9crational expectations.\xe2\x80\x9d'] ['This paper explains the key factors that determine the output multiplier of government purchases in New Keynesian models, through a series of simple examples that can be solved analytically. Sticky prices or wages allow for larger multipliers than in a neoclassical model, though the size of the multiplier depends crucially on the monetary policy response. A multiplier well in excess of one is possible when monetary policy is constrained by the zero lower bound, and in this case welfare increases if government purchases expand to partially fill the output gap that arises from the inability to lower interest rates. (JEL E12, E23, E32, E62, H20, H50)'] ['We extend a standard New Keynesian model to allow an analysis of "unconventional" dimensions of policy alongside traditional interest-rate policy. We find that quantitative easing in the strict sense is likely to be ineffective, but that targeted asset purchases by a central bank can instead be effective when financial markets are sufficiently disrupted, and we discuss the conditions under which such interventions increase welfare. We also discuss optimal policy with regard to the payment of interest on reserves.'] ['U radu se razmatra optimalna politika monetarne stabilizacije unutar dalekovidog modela kada centralna banka uvida da ocekivanja privatnog sektora ne moraju biti nu\xc5\xbeno konzistentna modelu, i \xc5\xbeeli da izabere politiku zadovoljavajucu u slucaju bilo kog uverenja dovoljno bliskog konzistentnosti modela. Utvrdeno je da je obavezivanje i dalje bitno za optimalnu politiku, da optimalni dugorocni inflacioni target nije pod uticajem stepena potencijalnih distorzija verovanja, i da je optimalna politika cak vi\xc5\xa1e zavisna od istorijskog konteksta nego u slucaju pretpostavljenih racionalnih ocekivanja.'] ["The authors extend a standard New Keynesian model to incorporate heterogeneity in spending opportunities and two sources of (potentially time-varying) credit spreads and to allow a role for the central bank's balance sheet in equilibrium determination. They use the model to investigate the implications of imperfect financial intermediation for familiar monetary policy prescriptions, and to consider additional dimensions of central bank policy - variations in the size and composition of the central bank's balance sheet and payment of interest on reserves - alongside the traditional question of the proper choice of setting an operating target for an overnight policy rate. The authors also give particular attention to the special problems that arise when the policy rate reaches the zero lower bound. They show that it is possible within a single unified framework to identify the criteria for policy to be optimal along each dimension. The suggested policy prescriptions apply equally well when financial markets work efficiently as when they are substantially disrupted and interest rate policy is constrained by the zero lower bound."] ['Understanding phenomena such as the recent financial crisis, and possible policy responses, requires the use of a macroeconomic framework in which financial intermediation matters for the allocation of resources. Neither standard macroeconomic models that abstract from financial intermediation nor traditional models of the "bank lending channel" are adequate as a basis for understanding the recent crisis. Instead we need models in which intermediation plays a crucial role, but in which intermediation is modeled in a way that better conforms to current institutional realities. In particular, we need models that recognize that a market-based financial system\xe2\x80\x94one in which intermediaries fund themselves by selling securities in competitive markets, rather than collecting deposits subject to reserve requirements\xe2\x80\x94is not the same as a frictionless system. I sketch the basic elements of an approach that allows financial intermediation and credit frictions to be integrated into macroeconomic analysis in a straightforward way. I show how the model can be used to analyze the macroeconomic consequences of the recent financial crisis and conclude with a discussion of some implications of the model for the conduct of monetary policy.'] [' We consider the desirability of modifying a standard Taylor rule for interest rate policy to incorporate adjustments for measures of financial conditions. We consider the consequences of such adjustments for the way policy would respond to a variety of disturbances, using the dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model with credit frictions developed in C\xef\xbf\xbdrdia and Woodford (2009a). According to our model, an adjustment for variations in credit spreads can improve upon the standard Taylor rule, but the optimal size of adjustment depends on the source of the variation in credit spreads. A response to the quantity of credit is less likely to be helpful. Copyright (c) 2010 The Ohio State University.'] ['The paper considers optimal monetary stabilization policy in a forward-looking model, when the central bank recognizes that private sector expectations need not be precisely model-consistent, and wishes to choose a policy that will be as good as possible in the case of any beliefs that are close enough to model-consistency. It is found that commitment continues to be important for optimal policy, that the optimal long-run inflation target is unaffected by the degree of potential distortion of beliefs, and that optimal policy is even more history-dependent than if rational expectations are assumed. (JEL C62, D84, E13, E31, E32, E52)'] ['While macroeconomics is often thought of as a deeply divided field, with less of a shared core and correspondingly less cumulative progress than other areas of economics, in fact, there are fewer fundamental disagreements among macroeconomists now than in past decades. This is due to important progress in resolving seemingly intractable debates. In this paper, I review some of those debates and outline important elements of the new synthesis in macroeconomic theory. I discusses the extent to which the new developments in theory and research methods are already affecting macroeconomic analysis in policy institutions. (JEL A11, E00)'] [' I consider some of the leading arguments for assigning an important role to tracking the growth of monetary aggregates when making decisions about monetary policy. First, I consider whether ignoring money means returning to the conceptual framework that allowed the high inflation of the 1970s. Second, I consider whether models of inflation determination with no role for money are incomplete, or inconsistent with elementary economic principles. Third, I consider the implications for monetary policy strategy of the empirical evidence for a long-run relationship between money growth and inflation. And fourth, I consider reasons why a monetary policy strategy based solely on short-run inflation forecasts derived from a Phillips curve may not be a reliable way of controlling inflation. I argue that none of these considerations provides a compelling reason to assign a prominent role to monetary aggregates in the conduct of monetary policy. Copyright (c) 2008 The Ohio State University.'] ["Along with the minutes of the October 30-31, 2007, meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee released a summary of its members' forecasts of key economic variables, a practice that is to be continued. Does this change in communication policy imply that the Fed is embarking on an undeclared policy of inflation targeting? Recent speeches by members of the FOMC indicate that the objective of releasing the forecasts is to enhance communication of policy concerns relating to its dual mandate of low inflation and low unemployment rather than set a specific target for inflation. This paper discusses the effectiveness of releasing forecasts in communicating the FOMC's policy to the public and its value as an internal discipline. It also proposes ways to include projections of policy interest rates in the forecasts while retaining flexibility to react to changing circumstances.Business Economics (2008) 43, 7\xe2\x80\x9313; doi:10.2145/20080301"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Questions about transparency and the optimal way to communicate and commit to a monetary policy are both highly practical and fascinating from a research viewpoint. How far can transparency be taken? Is it better for a central bank to provide information about the future path for the interest rate instrument, or simply to give the staff's economic forecast of inflation and the real economy? How should one model transparency? By assuming that communications are sent and received with error, or by assuming that only a fraction of economic agents get the information? Similarly, how can one model different degrees of commitment? And how can one test and evaluate different models of transparency and commitment?"] ['At central banks around the world, including the Bank of England, Sweden\'s Riksbank, Norway\'s Norges Bank, and the Reserve Bank of New Zealand, policy is conducted on the basis of "inflation-forecast targeting": the central bank constructs quantitative projections of the economy\'s expected future evolution based on the way in which it intends to control short-term interest rates, and public discussion of those projections plays a critical role in justifying the banks\' conduct of monetary policy to the public. What accounts for the appeal of this approach? Should it be adopted more widely or more explicitly? I review the long-running debate between proponents of monetary rules and proponents of discretionary monetary policy and argue that inflation-forecast targeting represents a powerful synthesis of the two approaches. I explore some common questions that arise about inflation-forecast targeting and consider how the U.S. Federal Reserve might move toward an explicit policy of inflation-forecast targeting.'] [' This paper considers optimal monetary stabilization policy in a forward-looking model, when the central bank recognizes that private-sector expectations need not be precisely model-consistent and wishes to choose a policy that will be as good as possible in the case of any beliefs that are close enough to model-consistency. It is found that commitment continues to be important for optimal policy, that the optimal long-run inflation target is unaffected by the degree of potential distortion of beliefs, and that optimal policy is even more history-dependent than if rational expectations are assumed. (JEL: E52) (c) 2006 by the European Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The International Journal of Central Banking from time to time will assemble and publish collections of papers on a common topic, especially when the editors see a critical mass of submissions in an active area where quick publication of the papers as a group will encourage discussion, create synergies, and increase the potential for further breakthroughs. We have decided to make this September 2006 issue of the IJCB the first such special issue, and we are planning more special issues for the future.'] ['We reconsider the optimal taxation of income from labour and capital in the stochastic growth model analysed by Chari et al. (1994, 1995), but using a linear-quadratic (LQ) approximation to derive a log-linear approximation to the optimal policy rules. The example illustrates how inaccurate \xe2\x80\x98na\xc3\xafve\xe2\x80\x99 LQ approximation - in which the quadratic objective is obtained from a simple Taylor expansion of the utility function of the representative household - can be, but also shows how a correct LQ approximation can be obtained, which will provide a correct local approximation to the optimal policy rules in the case of small enough shocks. We also consider the numerical accuracy of the LQ approximation in the case of shocks of the size assumed in the calibration of Chari et al. We find that the correct LQ approximation yields results that are quite accurate, and similar in most respects to the results obtained by Chari et al. using a more computationally intensive numerical method.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['A relation between inflation and the path of average marginal cost (often measured by unit labor cost) implied by the Calvo (1983) model of staggered pricing - sometimes referred to as the "New Keynesian" Phillips curve - has been the subject of extensive econometric estimation and testing. Standard theoretical justifications of this form of aggregate-supply relation, however, either assume (1) the existence of a competitive rental market for capital services, so that the shadow cost of capital services is equated across firms and sectors at all points in time, despite the fact that prices are set at different times, or (2) that the capital stock of each firm is constant, or at any rate exogenously given, and so independent of the firm\xe2\x80\x99s pricing decision. But neither assumption is realistic. The present paper examines the extent to which existing empirical specifications and interpretations of parameter estimates are compromised by reliance on either of these assumptions.'] ["A notable change in central banking over the past 15 years has been a world-wide movement toward increased communication by central banks about their policy decisions, the targets that they seek to achieve through those decisions, and the central bank's view of the economy's likely future evolution. This paper considers the role of such communication in the successful conduct of monetary policy, with a particular emphasis on an issue that remains controversial: to what extent is it desirable for central banks to comment on the likely path of short-term interest rates? After reviewing general arguments for and against central-bank transparency, the paper considers two specific contexts in which central banks have been forced to consider how much they are willing to say about the future path of interest rates. The first is the experiment with policy signaling by the FOMC in the U.S., using the statement released following each Committee meeting, since August 2003. The second is the need to make some assumption about future policy when producing the projections (for future inflation and other variables) that are central to inflation-forecast targeting procedures, of the kind used by the Bank of England, the Swedish Riksbank, the Reserve Bank of New Zealand, and others. In both cases, it is argued that increased willingness to share the central bank's own assumptions about future policy with the public has increased the predictability of policy, in ways that are likely to have improved central bank's ability to achieve their stabilization objectives.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Erceg et al. (2000) show that when both wages and prices are sticky, maximization of expected utility is equivalent to minimizing a loss function with three terms, involving measures of the variability of wage inflation, price inflation and the output gap respectively. Here we generalize their analysis, most importantly by not assuming the existence of output and employment subsidies that eliminate the distortions resulting from market power in goods and labor markets, so that the equilibrium level of output under flexible wages and prices would not necessarily be optimal. We show that a quadratic loss function can still be justified that involves the same three terms, albeit with different relative weights and a different definition of the output gap. Many conclusions of Erceg et al. are thus found to apply more generally. However, we argue that in the presence of significant steady-state distortions, simple rules of the kind that they examine are likely to approximate optimal policy less closely than is suggested by their numerical results.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" This paper considers the appropriate stabilization objectives for monetary policy in a micro-founded model with staggered price-setting. Rotemberg and Woodford (1997) and Woodford (2002) have shown that under certain conditions, a local approximation to the expected utility of the representative household in a model of this kind is related inversely to the expected discounted value of a conventional quadratic loss function, in which each period's loss is a weighted average of squared deviations of inflation and an output gap measure from their optimal values (zero). However, those derivations rely on an assumption of the existence of an output or employment subsidy that offsets the distortion due to the market power of monopolis-tically competitive price-setters, so that the steady state under a zero-inflation policy involves an efficient level of output. Here we show how to dispense with this unappealing assumption, so that a valid linear-quadratic approximation to the optimal policy problem is possible even when the steady state is distorted to an arbitrary extent (allowing for tax distortions as well as market power), and when, as a consequence, it is necessary to take account of the effects of stabilization policy on the average level of output. We again obtain a welfare-theoretic loss function that involves both inflation and an appropriately defined output gap, though the degree of distortion of the steady state affects both the weights on the two stabilization objectives and the definition of the welfare-relevant output gap. In the light of these results, we reconsider the conditions under which complete price stability is optimal, and find that they are more restrictive in the case of a distorted steady state. We also consider the conditions under which pure randomization of monetary policy can be welfare-improving, and find that this is possible in the case of a sufficiently distorted steady state, though the parameter values required are probably not empirically realistic. (JEL: D61, E52, E61) Copyright (c) 2005 by the European Economic Association."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The optimal weights on indicators in models with partial information about the state of the economy and forward-looking variables are derived and interpreted, both for equilibria under discretion and under commitment. The private sector is assumed to have information about the state of the economy that the policymaker does not possess. Certainty-equivalence is shown to apply, in the sense that optimal policy reactions to optimally estimated states of the economy are independent of the degree of uncertainty. The usual separation principle does not hold, since the estimation of the state of the economy is not independent of optimization and is in general quite complex. We present a general characterization of optimal filtering and control in settings of this kind, and discuss an application of our methods to the problem of the optimal use of "real-time" macroeconomic data in the conduct of monetary policy.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper considers the consequences for monetary policy of the zero floor for nominal interest rates. The zero bound can be a significant constraint on the ability of a central bank to combat deflation. The paper shows, in the context of an intertemporal equilibrium model, that open-market operations, even of "unconventional" types, are ineffective if future policy is expected to be purely forward looking. However, a credible commitment to the right sort of history-dependent policy can largely mitigate the distortions created by the zero bound. In the model, optimal policy involves a commitment to adjust interest rates so as to achieve a time-varying price-level target, when this is consistent with the zero bound. The paper also discusses ways in which other central bank actions, although irrelevant apart from their effects on expectations, may help to make a central bank\'s commitment to its target more credible.'] ['We propose an integrated treatment of the problems of optimal monetary and fiscal policy, for an economy in which prices are sticky and the only available sources of government revenue are distorting taxes. Our linear-quadratic approach allows us to nest both conventional analyses of optimal monetary stabilization policy and analyses of optimal tax-smoothing as special cases of our more general framework. We show how a linear-quadratic policy problem can be derived which yields a correct linear approximation to the optimal policy rules from the point of view of the maximization of expected discounted utility in a dynamic stochastic general-equilibrium model. Finally, we derive targeting rules through which the monetary and fiscal authorities may implement the optimal equilibrium.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper considers the desirability of the observed tendency of central banks to adjust interest rates only gradually in response to changes in economic conditions. It shows, in the context of a simple model of optimizing private-sector behaviour, that assignment of an interest-rate smoothing objective to the central bank may be desirable, even when reduction of the magnitude of interest-rate changes is not a social objective in itself. This is because a response of policy to "irrelevant" lagged variables may be desirable owing to the way it steers private-sector expectations of future policy. Copyright The Review of Economic Studies Limited, 2003.'] ["We calculate optimal monetary policy rules for several variants of a simple optimizing model of the monetary transmission mechanism with sticky prices and/or wages. We show that robustly optimal rules can be represented by interest-rate feedback rules that generalize the celebrated proposal of Taylor (1993). Optimal rules, however, require that the current interest rate operating target depend positively on the recent past level of the operating target, and its recent rate of increase, in a way that is characteristic of estimated central bank reaction functions, but not of Taylor's proposal."] ['Paper for a conference sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York entitled Financial Innovation and Monetary Transmission'] ['This paper derives loss functions for analyses of optimal monetary policy that are grounded in the welfare of private agents, in the case of explicit optimizing models of private-sector behavior in which the real effects of monetary policy result from nominal price rigidity. A quadratic approximation to the utility-based welfare criterion is developed that allows comparison between this criterion and the ad hoc quadratic loss functions typically assumed in the literature on monetary policy evaluation. It is shown that the goal of inflation stabilization, generally presumed to be an important (and perhaps the preeminent) goal of monetary policy, can in fact be justified in such a framework, insofar as variable inflation results in real distortions when prices are not adjusted throughout the economy in a perfectly synchronized fashion. The exact sense in which inflation variability matters for welfare, however, depends upon the details of price-setting behavior.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Maintaining price stability requires not only commitment to an appropriate monetary policy rule, but an appropriate fiscal policy rule as well. Ricardian equivalence does not imply that fiscal policy is irrelevant, except in the case of a certain class of policies ("Ricardian" policies). The role of fiscal developments in inflation determination under a non-Ricardian regime is illustrated through an analysis of the bond-price support regime of the 1940s. A monetary-fiscal regime with attractive properties would combine a "Taylor rule" for monetary policy with nominal-deficit targeting as a fiscal policy commitment.'] ["This paper considers two challenges that improvements in private-sector information-processing capabilities may pose for the effectiveness of monetary policy. It first considers the consequences of improved information about central-bank actions, and argues that the management of expectations will become even more important to effective monetary policy. The paper next considers the consequences of the potential erosion of private-sector demand for central-bank money. This should not fundamentally impair the ability of central banks to achieve their stabilization objectives, though it may require a new approach to the implementation of monetary policy. The advantages of a 'channel' system, in which central-bank standing facilities are the main tool used to control overnight interest rates, are discussed.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper considers whether the development of "electronic money" poses any threat to the ability of central banks to control the value of their national currencies through conventional monetary policy. It argues that, even if the demand for base money for use in facilitating transactions is largely or even completely eliminated, monetary policy should continue to be effective. Macroeconomic stabilization depends only upon the ability of central banks to control a short-term nominal interest rate, and this would continue to be possible, in particular through the use of a "channel" system for the implementation of policy, like those currently used in Canada, Australia and New Zealand. Copyright 2000 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd.'] ['The optimal weights on indicators in models with partial information about the state of the economy and forward-looking variables are derived and interpreted, both for equilibria under discretion and under commitment. An example of optimal monetary policy with a partially observable potential output and a forward-looking indicator is examined. The optimal response to the optimal estimate of potential output displays certainty-equivalence, whereas the optimal response to the imperfect observation of output depends on the noise in this observation.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The author considers the desirability of the observed tendency of central banks to adjust interest rates only gradually in response to changes in economic conditions. He shows, in the context of a simple model of optimizing private sector behavior, that such inertial behavior on the part of the central bank may indeed be optimal, in the sense of minimizing a loss function that penalizes inflation variations, deviations of output from potential and interest rate variability. Sluggish adjustment characterizes an optimal policy commitment even though no such inertia would be present in the case of discretionary optimization. Copyright 1999 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd and The Victoria University of Manchester'] ['This paper shows that it is possible to analyze equilibrium inflation determination without any reference to either money supply or demand, as long as one specifies policy in terms of a "Wicksellian" interest-rate feedback rule. The paper\'s central result is an approximation theorem, showing the existence, for a simple monetary model, of a well-behaved "cashless limit" in which the money balances held to facilitate transactions become negligible. Inflation in the cashless limit is shown to be a function of the gap between the "natural rate" of interest, determined by the supply of goods and opportunities for intertemporal substitution, and a time-varying parameter of the interest-rate rule indicating the tightness of monetary policy. Inflation can be completely stabilized, in principle, by adjusting the policy parameter to track variation in the natural rate. Under such a regime, instability of money demand has little effect upon equilibrium inflation and need not be monitored by the central bank. (Copyright: Elsevier)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper provides a fairly systematic study of rational asset pricing bubbles in an intertemporal competitive equilibrium framework that allows for incomplete markets, productive assets, borrowing limits, and incomplete participation of agents in markets. The main results are concerned with nonexistence of asset pricing bubbles. These results imply that the conditions under which bubbles are possible--including some well-known examples of monetary equilibria--are relatively fragile.'] ["Proposals for 'inflation targeting' as a strategy for monetary policy leave open the important operational question of how to determine whether current policies are consistent with the long-run inflation target. An interesting possibility is that the central bank might target current private-sector forecasts of inflation, either those made explicitly by professional forecasters or those implicit in asset prices. We address the issue of existence and uniqueness of rational expectations equilibria when the central bank uses private-sector forecasts as a guide to policy actions. In a dynamic model which incorporates both sluggish price adjustment and shocks to aggregate demand and aggregate supply, we show that strict targeting of inflation forecasts is typically inconsistent with the existence of rational expectations equilibrium, and that policies approximating strict inflation-forecast targeting are likely to have undesirable properties. We also show that economies with more general forecast-based policy rules are particularly susceptible to indeterminacy of rational expectations equilibria. We conclude that, although private-sector forecasts may contain information useful to the central bank, ultimately the monetary authorities must rely on an explicit structural model of the economy to guide their policy decisions.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' The authors show that modifying the standard neoclassical growth model by assuming that competition is imperfect makes it easier to explain the size of the declines in output and real wages that follow increases in the price of oil. Plausibly parameterized models of this type are able to mimic the response of output and real wages in the United States. The responses are particularly consistent with a model of implicit collusion where markups depend positively on the ratio of the expected present value of future profits to the current level of output. Copyright 1996 by Ohio State University Press.'] [' The authors study the movements in output, consumption, and hours that are forecastable from a vector autoregression and analyze how they differ from those predicted by standard real-business-cycle models. They show that actual forecastable movements in output have a variance about one hundred times larger than those predicted by the model. The authors also find that forecastable changes in the three series are strongly positively correlated with each other. On the other hand, for parameters whose implications are plausible in other respects, the model implies that output, consumption, and hours should not all be expected to move in the same direction. Copyright 1996 by American Economic Association.'] ["With loan commitments negotiated in advance, the use of tight money to restrain nominal spending has asymmetric effects upon different categories of borrowers. This can reduce efficiency, even though aggregate demand is stabilized. This is illustrated in the context of an equilibrium model of financial intermediation with loan commitments, where monetary policy is characterized by a supply curve for reserves on the part of the central bank in an inter-bank market. If demand uncertainty relates primarily to the intensity of demand by each borrower with no difference in the degree of cyclicality of individual borrowers' demands, an inelastic supply of reserves by the central bank is optimal, because it stabilizes aggregate demand and as a result increases average capacity utilization. But if demand uncertainty relates primarily to the number of borrowers rather than to each one's demand for credit, an interest-rate smoothing policy is optimal, because it eliminates inefficient rationing of credit in high-demand states.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['This paper discusses the consequences of introducing imperfectly competitive product markets in an otherwise standard neoclassical growth model. We pay particular attention to the consequences of imperfect competition for the explanation of fluctuations in aggregate economic activity. Market structures considered include monopolistic competition, the "customer market" model of Phelps and Winter, and the implicit collusion model of Rotemberg and Saloner. Empirical evidence relevant to the numerical calibration of imperfectly competitive models is reviewed. The paper then analyzes the effects of imperfect competition upon the economy\'s response to several kinds of real shocks, including technology shocks, shocks to the level of government purchases, and shocks that change individual producers\' degree of market power. It also discusses the role of imperfect competition in allowing for fluctuations due solely to self-fulfilling expectations.'] ["It is shown that the price level remains determinate even in the case of two kinds of radical money supply endogeneity -- an interest rate peg by the central bank, and a 'free banking' regime -- that are commonly supposed to imply loss of control of the price level. Price level determination under such regimes can be understood in terms of a 'fiscal theory of the price level,' according to which the equilibrium price level is that level that makes the real value of nominally denominated government liabilities equal to the present value of expected future government budget surpluses. The application of the fiscal theory of the price level to exogenous-money regimes is sketched as well.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper constructs a dynamic macroeconomic model with less- than-perfect price flexibility which has a real side consistent with Real Business Cycle Theory, augmented by investment adjustment costs, increasing returns to scale, and a new, flexible formalization of imperfect competition. A new mode of approximation is developed\xc3\xbeuseful for any model in which one state variable adjusts quickly, while another state variable adjusts slowly. Even with investment adjustment costs, monetary expansions are found to raise the real interest rate. The determinants of real rigidity and the macroeconomic rate of price adjustment are investigated.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper illustrates how fluctuations in aggregate economic activity can result from many small, independent shocks to individual sectors. The effects of the small independent shocks fail to cancel in the aggregate due to the presence of two non-standard assumptions: local interaction between productive units (linked by supply relationships), and non-convex technology. We also argue that neither feature on its own would suffice. In the case of a simple model, we explicitly calculate the distribution of aggregate activity in the limit of an infinite number of independently disturbed sectors.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" The authors construct a dynamic general equilibrium model in which the typical industry colludes by threatening to punish deviations from an implicitly agreed-on pricing path. They use methods similar to those of F. Kydland and E. Prescott (1982) to calibrate linearized versions of both their model and an analogous perfectly concerning model. The authors then compute the two models' predictions concerning the economy's responses to a change in military spending. The responses predicted by the oligopolistic model are closer to the empirical responses estimated with postwar U.S. data than the corresponding predictions of the competitive model. Copyright 1992 by University of Chicago Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' An adaptive learning rule is exhibited for the Azariadis (1981) overlapping generations model of a monetary economy with multiple equilibria, under which the economy may converge to a stationary sunspot equilibrium, even if agents do not initially believe that outcomes are significantly different in different "sunspot" states. The learning rule studied is of the "stochastic approximation" form studied by H. Robbins and S. Monro (1951); methods for analyzing the convergence of this form of algorithm are presented that may be of use in many other contexts as well. Conditions are given under which convergence to a sunspot equilibrium occurs with probability one. Copyright 1990 by The Econometric Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']