 ['I propose a quasi-maximum likelihood framework for estimating nonlinear models with continuous or discrete endogenous explanatory variables. Joint and two-step estimation procedures are considered. The joint procedure is a quasi-limited information maximum likelihood procedure, as one or both of the log likelihoods may be misspecified. The two-step control function approach is computationally simple and leads to straightforward tests of endogeneity. In the case of discrete endogenous explanatory variables, I argue that the control function approach can be applied with generalized residuals to obtain average partial effects. I show how the results apply to nonlinear models for fractional and nonnegative responses.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper analyzes spatial Probit models for cross sectional dependent data in a binary choice context. Observations are divided by pairwise groups and bivariate normal distributions are specified within each group. Partial maximum likelihood estimators are introduced and they are shown to be consistent and asymptotically normal under some regularity conditions. Consistent covariance matrix estimators are also provided. Estimates of average partial effects can also be obtained once we characterize the conditional distribution of the latent error. Finally, a simulation study shows the advantages of our new estimation procedure in this setting. Our proposed partial maximum likelihood estimators are shown to be more efficient than the generalized method of moments counterparts.'] ['I propose a general, simple approach to recovering an unconditional heterogeneity distribution when a conditional distribution has been estimated. The approach can be applied to cross section models and panel data models-both static and dynamic-with unobserved heterogeneity.'] ['We consider estimation of panel data models with sample selection when the equation of interest contains endogenous explanatory variables as well as unobserved heterogeneity. Assuming that appropriate instruments are available, we propose several tests for selection bias and two estimation procedures that correct for selection in the presence of endogenous regressors. The tests are based on the fixed effects two-stage least squares estimator, thereby permitting arbitrary correlation between unobserved heterogeneity and explanatory variables. The first correction procedure is parametric and is valid under the assumption that the errors in the selection equation are normally distributed. The second procedure estimates the model parameters semiparametrically using series estimators. In the proposed testing and correction procedures, the error terms may be heterogeneously distributed and serially dependent in both selection and primary equations. Because these methods allow for a rather flexible structure of the error variance and do not impose any nonstandard assumptions on the conditional distributions of explanatory variables, they provide a useful alternative to the existing approaches presented in the literature.'] ['This article provides an overview of difference-in-differences estimation, starting with a review of the basic methodology, discussing in some detail recent advances in inference, and concluding with new methods for estimating treatment effects in various nonlinear and semiparametric models.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Many empirical questions in economics and other social sciences depend on causal effects of programs or policies. In the last two decades, much research has been done on the econometric and statistical analysis of such causal effects. This recent theoretical literature has built on, and combined features of, earlier work in both the statistics and econometrics literatures. It has by now reached a level of maturity that makes it an important tool in many areas of empirical research in economics, including labor economics, public finance, development economics, industrial organization, and other areas of empirical microeconomics. In this review, we discuss some of the recent developments. We focus primarily on practical issues for empirical researchers, as well as provide a historical overview of the area and give references to more technical research.'] ['In the common case where polynomial approximations are used for unknown functions, I show how proxy variable approaches to controlling for unobserved productivity, proposed by Olley and Pakes [Olley, S. and Pakes, A., 1996. The dynamics of productivity in the telecommunications equipment industry. Econometrica 64, 1263-1298.] and Levinsohn and Petrin (Levinsohn, J. and Petrin, A., 2003. Estimating production functions using inputs to control for unobservables. Review of Economic Studies 70, 317-341.], can be implemented by specifying different instruments for different equations and applying generalized method of moments. Studying the parameters within a two-equation system clarifies some key identification issues, and joint estimation of the parameters leads to simple inference and more efficient estimators.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['I study inverse probability weighted M-estimation under a general missing data scheme. The cases covered that do not previously appear in the literature include M-estimation with missing data due to a censored survival time, propensity score estimation of the average treatment effect for linear exponential family quasi-log-likelihood functions, and variable probability sampling with observed retainment frequencies. I extend an important result known to hold in special cases: estimating the selection probabilities is generally more efficient than if the known selection probabilities could be used in estimation. For the treatment effect case, the setup allows for a simple characterization of a \xe2\x80\x9cdouble robustness\xe2\x80\x9d result due to Scharfstein, Rotnitzky, and Robins (1999): given appropriate choices for the conditional mean function and quasi-log-likelihood function, only one of the conditional mean or selection probability needs to be correctly specified in order to consistently estimate the average treatment effect.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' I derive conditions under which a class of fixed-effects estimators consistently estimates the population-averaged slope coefficients in panel data models with individual-specific slopes, where the slopes are allowed to be correlated with the covariates. In addition to including the usual fixed-effects estimator, the results apply to estimators that eliminate individual-specific trends. I apply the results, and propose alternative estimators, to estimation of average treatment in a class of nonlinear unobserved-effects models. \xc2\xa9 2005 President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [' I study a simple, widely applicable approach to handling the initial conditions problem in dynamic, nonlinear unobserved effects models. Rather than attempting to obtain the joint distribution of all outcomes of the endogenous variables, I propose finding the distribution conditional on the initial value (and the observed history of strictly exogenous explanatory variables). The approach is flexible, and results in simple estimation strategies for at least three leading dynamic, nonlinear models: probit, Tobit and Poisson regression. I treat the general problem of estimating average partial effects, and show that simple estimators exist for important special cases. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2005 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['I describe how the method of moments approach to estimation, including the more recent generalized method of moments (GMM) theory, can be applied to problems using cross section, time series, and panel data. Method of moments estimators can be attractive because in many circumstances they are robust to failures of auxiliary distributional assumptions that are not needed to identify key parameters. I conclude that while sophisticated GMM estimators are indispensable for complicated estimation problems, it seems unlikely that GMM will provide convincing improvements over ordinary least squares and two-stage least squares--by far the most common method of moments estimators used in econometrics--in settings faced most often by empirical researchers.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['It is well established that local linear method dominates the conventional local constant method in estimating nonparametric regression models by kernel method. In this paper we consider the problem of estimating semiparametric econometric models by local linear method. We provide a simple proof of establishing the joint asymptotic normality of the local linear estimator. We then show that our results can be used to easily derive the asymptotic distributions of local linear estimators for several semiparametric econometric models. An empirical application of using a semiparametric local linear estimator to cross country growth data is examined.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' I provide a systematic treatment of the asymptotic properties of weighted M-estimators under variable probability stratified sampling. The characterization of the sampling scheme and representation of the objective function allow for a straightforward analysis. Simple, consistent asymptotic variance matrix estimators are proposed. When stratification is based on exogenous variables, I show that the unweighted M-estimator is more efficient than the weighted estimator under a generalized conditional information matrix equality. When population frequencies are known, a more efficient weighting is possible. I also show how the results carry over to multinomial sampling.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper considers estimation of multiplicative, unobserved components panel data models without imposing a strict exogeneity assumption on the conditioning variables. The method of moments estimators proposed have significant robustness properties. They require only a conditional mean assumption and apply to models with lagged dependent variables and to finite distributed lag models with arbitrary feedback from the explained to future values of the explanatory variables. The model is particularly suited to nonnegative explained variables, including count variables, continuously distributed nonnegative outcomes, and even binary variables. The general model can also be applied to certain nonlinear Euler equations.'] [' We develop attractive functional forms and simple quasi-likelihood estimation methods for regression models with a fractional dependent variable. Compared with log-odds type procedures, there is no difficulty in recovering the regression function for the fractional variable, and there is no need to use ad hoc transformations to handle data at the extreme values of zero and one. We also offer some new, robust specification tests by nesting the logit or probit function in a more general functional form. We apply these methods to a data set of employee participation rates in 401(k) pension plans. Copyright 1996 by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["In this comment on Gurmu and Trivedi's \xe2\x80\x9cVariable Augmentation Specification Tests in the Linear Exponential Family,\xe2\x80\x9d I show how their generalized linear model (GLM) approach relates to other work in econometrics on specification testing in the linear exponential family. In addition to shedding light on the relationship between the statistics and econometrics literatures on testing in quasi-likelihood frameworks, this comparison reveals some important limitations of GLM as a general framework for devising specification tests."] [' A specification test is proposed to test the adequacy of the implicit conditional mean specification in a transformation model. Regardless of the transformation under the null, the statistic is computable from ordinary least squares output via auxiliary ordinary least squares regressions. Further, the test presumes no particular form for the conditional variance of the transformed and untransformed regressands. A simple goodness-of-fit measure that can be used to compare across transformations is a natural byproduct of the analysis. An application to a well-known fisheries data set is included. Copyright 1994 by MIT Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' A nonlinear regression model is proposed as an alternative to the Box-Cox regression model for nonnegative variables. The functional form contains linear, exponential, and reciprocal models as special cases. Unlike Box-Cox type approaches, the proposed estimators of the conditional mean function are robust to conditional variance and other distributional misspecifications. Computationally simple, robust Lagrange multiplier statistics for restricted versions of the model are derived. Scale invariant t-statistics are proposed and the Lagrange multiplier statistic for exclusion restrictions is shown to be scale invariant. Copyright 1992 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] ['A test for neglected nonlinearities in regression models is proposed. The test is of the Davidson-MacKinnon type against an increasingly rich set of non-nested alternatives, and is based on sieve estimation of the alternative model. For the case of a linear parametric model, the test statistic is shown to be asymptotically standard normal under the null, while rejecting with probability going to one if the linear model is misspecified. A small simulation study suggests that the test has adequate finite sample properties, but one must guard against over fitting the nonparametric alternative.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper develops a general approach to robust, regression-based specification tests for (possibly) dynamic econometric models. A useful feature of the proposed tests is that, in addition to estimation under the null hypothesis, computation requires only a matrix linear least-squares regression and then an ordinary least-squares regression similar to those employed in popular nonrobust tests. For the leading cases of conditional mean and/or conditional variance tests, the proposed statistics are robust to departures from distributional assumptions that are not being tested, while maintaining asymptotic efficiency under ideal conditions. Moreover, the statistics can be computed using any \xe2\x88\x9a T-consistent estimator, resulting in significant simplifications in some otherwise difficult contexts. Among the examples covered are conditional mean tests for models estimated by weighted nonlinear least squares under misspecification of the conditional variance, tests of jointly parameterized conditional means and variances estimated by quasi-maximum likelihood under nonnormality, and some robust specification tests for a dynamic linear model estimated by two-stage least squares.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The capital asset pricing model provides a theoretical structure for the pricing of assets with uncertain returns. The premium to induc e risk-averse investors to bear risk is proportional to the nondivers ifiable risk, which is measured by the covariance of the asset return with the market portfolio return. In this paper, a multivariate, gen eralized-autoregressive, conditional, heteroscedastic process is esti mated for returns to bills, bonds, and stocks where the expected retu rn is proportional to the conditional covariance of each return with that of a fully diversified or market portfolio. It is found that the conditional covariances are quite variable over time and are a signi ficant determinant of the time-varying risk premia. The implied betas are also time varying and forecastable. Copyright 1988 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['Building on work of McLeish, we present a number of invariance principles for doubly indexed arrays of stochastic processes which may exhibit considerable dependence, heterogeneity, and/or trending moments. In particular, we consider possibly time-varying functions of infinite histories of heterogeneous mixing processes and obtain general invariance results, with central limit theorems following as corollaries. These results are formulated so as to apply to economic time series, which may exhibit some or all of the features allowed in our theorems. Results are given for the case of both scalar and vector stochastic processes. Using an approach recently pioneered by Phillips, and Phillips and Durlauf, we apply our results to least squares estimation of unit root models.']