 ['This paper provides new evidence of sharp differences in cognitive development by socioeconomic status in early childhood for five Latin American countries using a common measure of receptive language ability. We find important differences in development in early childhood across countries and steep socioeconomic gradients within every country. For the three countries where we can follow children over time, there are few substantive changes in scores once children enter school. Our results are robust to different ways of defining socioeconomic status, to different ways of standardizing outcomes, and to selective nonresponse on our measure of cognitive development.'] [' The empirical literature on the impact of HIV on the quality (Q) and quantity (N) of children provides limited and somewhat mixed evidence. This study introduces individual HIV risk perceptions, as a predictor of mortality, into a Q\xe2\x80\x93N investment model. In this model, higher maternal mortality predicts lower N, while higher child mortality predicts lower Q. Thus, the two effects together make likely negative associations between HIV and both Q and N. Based on longitudinal micro-data on mothers and their children in rural Malawi, our results suggest that higher mothers\xe2\x80\x99 reported HIV risk reduces both child quality, as reflected in children\xe2\x80\x99s schooling and health, and child quantity, when the perceived risk is already moderate or high. The effects are sizable and, in the case of Q (schooling and health), are found for children and teenagers, both boys and girls, while in the case of N, they are found for young and mature women. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015'] ['Adult health outcomes and health behaviors are often associated with schooling. However, such associations do not necessarily imply that schooling has causal effects on health with the signs or magnitudes found in the cross-sectional associations. Schooling may be proxying for unobserved factors related to genetics and family background that directly affect both health and schooling. Recently several studies have used within-monozygotic (MZ) twins methods to control for unobserved factors shared by identical twins. Within-MZ estimates for developed countries are generally smaller than suggested by cross-sectional associations, consistent with positive correlations between unobserved factors that determine schooling and those that determine health. This study contributes new estimates of cross-sectional associations and within-MZ causal effects using the Chinese Adults Twins Survey, the first study of its type for developing countries. The cross-sectional estimates suggest that schooling is significantly associated with adult health-related behaviors (smoking, drinking, exercising) but not with own or spouse health outcomes (general health, mental health, overweight, chronic diseases). However, within-MZ-twins estimators change the estimates for approximately half of these health indicators, in one case declining in absolute magnitudes and becoming insignificant and in the other cases increasing in absolute magnitudes. Within-MZ estimates indicate significant pro-health effects for at least one of the indicators for own health (better mental health), own health-related behaviors (less smoking) and spouse health (less overweight).'] ['Numerous theoretical reasons have been posited about why more schooling might improve health. Adult health outcomes and behaviors generally are significantly associated with schooling. However, such associations do not necessarily imply that schooling has causal effects on health outcomes and behaviors. Causal estimates based on schooling variation from policies and from within-MZ (monozygotic) twins have reached mixed conclusions. This study contributed new estimates of cross-sectional associations and within-MZ causal effects using three relatively large US twins samples. The estimates suggested that schooling was significantly associated with numerous health outcomes and behaviors. However, with within-MZ twins control for unobserved factors, schooling was no longer associated with most indicators of better health (with the exception of self-reported health), while it continued to be associated with outcomes such as fertility and spousal schooling. Similar patterns were observed for spousal schooling.'] ["Many children worldwide are left-behind by parents migrating for work \xe2\x80\x94 over 61 million in rural China alone, almost half of whom are left-behind by both parents. While previous literature considers impacts of one parent absent on educational inputs (e.g., study time, enrollment, schooling attainment), this study directly investigates impacts on children's learning (test scores) and distinguishes impacts of absence of one versus both parents. Dynamic panel methods that control for both unobserved individual heterogeneity and endogeneity in parental absence are used with data collected from rural China. The estimates indicate significant negative impacts of being left-behind by both parents on children's cognitive development, reducing their contemporary achievements by 5.4 percentile points for math and 5.1 percentile points for Chinese, but much smaller insignificant impacts of being left-behind by one parent. Cross-sectional evidence indicates that only absence of both parents is associated with substantially lower family inputs in after-school tutoring."] [' Using data on monozygotic (MZ) (identical) female twins from the Minnesota Twin Registry, we estimate the causal effect of schooling on completed fertility, probability of being childless, and age at first birth using the within-MZ twins methodology. We find strong cross-sectional associations between schooling and the fertility outcomes, and some evidence that more schooling causes women to have fewer children and delay childbearing, though not to the extent that interpreting cross-sectional associations as causal would imply. Our conclusions are robust when taking account of (1) endogenous within-twin pair schooling differences due to reverse causality and (2) measurement error in schooling. We also investigate possible mechanisms and find that the effect of women\xe2\x80\x99s schooling on completed fertility is not mediated through husband\xe2\x80\x99s schooling but may be mediated in part through age at first marriage. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014'] [' Most empirical investigations of the effects of cognitive skills assume that they are produced by schooling. Drawing on longitudinal data to estimate production functions for adult verbal and nonverbal cognitive skills, we find that: (1) School attainment has a significant and substantial effect on adult verbal cognitive skills but not on adult nonverbal cognitive skills; and (2) Pre-school and post-school experiences also have substantial positive significant effects on adult cognitive skills. Pre-school experiences captured by height for age at 6 years substantially and significantly increase adult nonverbal cognitive skills, even after controlling for school attainment. Post-school tenure in skilled jobs has significant positive effects on both types of cognitive skills. The findings (1) reinforce the importance of early life investments; (2) support the importance of childhood nutrition (\xe2\x80\x9cFlynn effect\xe2\x80\x9d) and work complexity in explaining increases in nonverbal cognitive skills; (3) call into question interpretations of studies reporting productivity impacts of cognitive skills that do not control for endogeneity; and (4) point to limitations in using adult school attainment alone to represent human capital. Copyright The Author(s) 2014'] [' Despite the voluminous literature on the potentials of single-sex schools, there is no consensus on the effects of single-sex schools because of student selection of school types. We exploit a unique feature of schooling in Seoul\xe2\x80\x94the random assignment of students into single-sex versus coeducational high schools\xe2\x80\x94to assess causal effects of single-sex schools on college entrance exam scores and college attendance. Our validation of the random assignment shows comparable socioeconomic backgrounds and prior academic achievement of students attending single-sex schools and coeducational schools, which increases the credibility of our causal estimates of single-sex school effects. The three-level hierarchical model shows that attending all-boys schools or all-girls schools, rather than coeducational schools, is significantly associated with higher average scores on Korean and English test scores. Applying the school district fixed-effects models, we find that single-sex schools produce a higher percentage of graduates who attended four-year colleges and a lower percentage of graduates who attended two-year junior colleges than do coeducational schools. The positive effects of single-sex schools remain substantial, even after we take into account various school-level variables, such as teacher quality, the student-teacher ratio, the proportion of students receiving lunch support, and whether the schools are public or private. Copyright Population Association of America 2013'] ['Several recent studies using instrumental variables based on changes in compulsory school-leaving age laws have estimated the causal effect of schooling on health outcomes and health-related behaviors in the U.K. Despite using the same identification strategy and similar datasets, no consensus has been reached. We contribute to the literature by providing results for the U.K. using a different research design and a different dataset. Specifically, we estimate the effect of schooling on health outcomes (obesity and physical health) and health-related behaviors (smoking, alcohol consumption and exercise) for women through within-MZ twins estimates using the TwinsUK database. For physical health, alcohol consumption and exercise, the within-MZ twins estimates are uninformative about whether there is a causal effect. However, we find (1) that the significant association between schooling and smoking status is due to unobserved endowments that are correlated with schooling and smoking and (2) there is some indication that more schooling reduces the body mass index for women, even once these unobserved endowments have been controlled for.'] ["Research in industrial nations suggests that formal math skills are associated with improvements in market and non-market outcomes. But do these associations also hold in a highly autarkic setting with a limited formal labor market? We examined this question using observational annual panel data (2008 and 2009) from 1121 adults in a native Amazonian society of forager-farmers in Bolivia (Tsimane\xe2\x80\x99). Formal math skills were associated with an increase in wealth in durable market goods and in total wealth between data collection rounds, and with improved indicators of own reported perceived stress and child health. These associations did not vary significantly by people's Spanish skills or proximity to town. We conclude that the positive association between math skills and market and non-market outcomes extends beyond industrial nations to even highly autarkic settings."] [' Conditional cash transfer (CCT) programs link public transfers to human capital investment in the hopes of alleviating current poverty and reducing its intergenerational transmission. Whereas nearly all studies of their effects have focused on youth, CCT programs may also have an impact on aging adults by increasing household resources or inducing changes in allocations of time of household members, which may be of substantial interest, particularly given the rapid aging of most populations. This article contributes to this underresearched area by examining health and work impacts on the aging for the best-known and most influential of these programs, the Mexican PROGRESA/Oportunidades program. For a number of health indicators, the program appears to significantly improve health, with larger effects for recipients with a greater time receiving benefits from the program. Most of these health effects are concentrated on women. Copyright Population Association of America 2013'] ["Recent research has demonstrated some growth recovery among children stunted in infancy. Less is known about key age ranges for such growth recovery, and what factors are correlates with this growth. This study characterized child growth up to age 1 year, and from ages 1 to 5 and 5 to 8 years controlling for initial height-for-age z-score (HAZ), and identified key distal household and community factors associated with these growth measures using longitudinal data on 7266 children in the Young Lives (YL) study in Ethiopia, India, Peru and Vietnam. HAZ at about age 1 year and age in months predicted much of the variation in HAZ at age 5 years, but 40\xe2\x80\x9371% was not predicted. Similarly, HAZ at age 5 years and age in months did not predict 26\xe2\x80\x9347% of variation in HAZ at 8 years. Multiple regression analysis suggests that parental schooling, consumption, and mothers' height are key correlates of HAZ at about age 1 and also are associated with unpredicted change in HAZ from ages 1 to 5 and 5 to 8 years, given initial HAZ. These results underline the importance of a child's starting point in infancy in determining his or her growth, point to key distal household and community factors that may determine early growth in early life and subsequent growth recovery and growth failure, and indicate that these factors vary some by country, urban/rural designation, and child sex."] [' We use village census data and linear regression models to examine changes between 1975 and 2002 in the associations of parental resources with boys\xe2\x80\x99 and girls\xe2\x80\x99 schooling in four rural Guatemalan villages. Levels of schooling in 1975 were universally low for children 7\xe2\x80\x9317 years. Large increases in schooling achievements occurred between 1975 and 2002. By 2002, schooling levels were comparable for younger boys and girls (7\xe2\x80\x9312 years, N = 3,525) and favored older boys compared to older girls (13\xe2\x80\x9317 years, N = 2,440) by about 0.5 grades. The associations of household standard of living and maternal schooling with schooling among girls diminished over time and became more comparable with these associations among boys, and the associations of household standard of living with schooling among older boys declined and became more comparable with these associations among girls. Thus, as increased social investments reduce the costs of schooling or increase the supply and quality of schooling to families, the magnitudes of the associations between parental resources and children\xe2\x80\x99s schooling decline and become more gender equitable at all ages. However, our results show that older boys may benefit more than older girls from social investments in schooling. These changes suggest potential needs to monitor gender gaps in schooling retention among older children, to insure gender equitable access to social investments in schooling, and to encourage parents to invest in schooling as joint measures to achieve greater schooling achievements of girls and boys. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2013'] ["Finding an efficient method for sampling micro- and small-enterprises (MSEs) for research and statistical reporting purposes is a challenge in developing countries, where registries of MSEs are often nonexistent or outdated. This lack of a sampling frame creates an obstacle in finding a representative sample of MSEs. This study uses computer simulations to draw samples from a census of businesses and non-businesses in the Tshwane Municipality of South Africa, using three different sampling methods: the traditional probability sampling method, the compact segment sampling method, and the World Health Organization's Expanded Programme on Immunization (EPI) sampling method. Three mechanisms by which the methods could differ are tested, the proximity selection of respondents, the at-home selection of respondents, and the use of inaccurate probability weights. The results highlight the importance of revisits and accurate probability weights, and the lesser effect of proximity selection on the samples' statistical properties."] ['Intergenerational transfer patterns in sub-Saharan Africa are poorly understood, despite the alleged importance of support networks to ameliorate the complex implications of the HIV/AIDS epidemic on families. We estimate the age patterns and the multiple directions of transfer flows in rural Malawi---from prime-aged respondents to their elderly parents and adult children age 15+. Our findings include that: (1) financial net transfers are strongly age-patterned and the middle generations are net-providers of transfers; (2) non-financial transfers are based on mutual assistance rather than reallocation of resources; and (3) intergenerational transfers are generally not related to health status, including HIV+ status.'] [' Conditional cash transfer (CCT) programs have spread worldwide as a new form of social assistance for the poor. Previous evaluations of CCT programs focus mainly on rural settings, and little is known about their effects in urban areas. This paper studies the short-term (1- and 2-year) effects of the Mexican Oportunidades CCT program on urban children/youth. The program provides financial incentives for children/youth to attend school and for family members to visit health clinics. To participate, families had to sign up for the program and be deemed eligible. Difference-in-difference propensity score-matching estimates indicate that the program is successful in increasing school enrollment, schooling attainment and time devoted to homework for girls and boys and in decreasing working rates of boys.'] [' This study isolates the causal effects of financial literacy and schooling on wealth accumulation using a new household dataset and an instrumental variables (IV) approach. Financial literacy and schooling attainment are both strongly positively associated with wealth outcomes in linear regression models, whereas the IV estimates reveal even more potent effects of financial literacy. They also indicate that the schooling effect only becomes positive when interacted with financial literacy. Estimated impacts are substantial enough to imply that investments in financial literacy could have large wealth payoffs.'] ['Conditional cash transfer (CCT) programs link public transfers to human capital investment in hopes of alleviating current poverty and reducing its intergenerational transmission. However, little is known about their long-term impacts. This paper evaluates longer-run impacts on schooling and work of the best-known CCT program, Mexico\xe2\x80\x99s PROGRESA/Oportunidades, using experimental and nonexperimental estimators based on groups with different program exposure. The results show positive impacts on schooling, reductions in work for younger youth (consistent with postponing labor force entry), increases in work for older girls, and shifts from agricultural to nonagricultural employment. The evidence suggests schooling effects are robust with time.'] ['Economic inequality and poverty have persisted in Latin America despite important changes in political and policy regimes. This paper explores the relationship between various human capital programs aimed to reduced poverty and how improvements of those in poverty in the left tail of the earning income distribution are likely to reduce inequality. First it reviews some recent benefit/cost estimates for human capital intervention in LAC, suggesting some investments in which the returns appear quite high. Then it turns over to how much increases in schooling attainment targeted to the poor would reduce poverty and income inequality. This is illustrated empirically using the 2004 Chilean Social Protection Survey data. Alternative simulations suggest significant impacts of well targeted increases in schooling attainment on reducing poverty and inequality.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In this paper, we present a framework for considering whether the marginal social benefits of demographic and social science research on various health conditions in developing countries are likely to be relatively high. Based on this framework, we argue that the relative current and future predicted prevalence of burdens of different health/disease conditions, as measured by disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), provide a fairly accurate reflection of some important factors related to the relative marginal social benefits of demographic and social science research on different health conditions. World Health Organization (WHO) DALYs projections for 2005-30 are compared with (a) demographic and other social science studies on health in developing countries during 1990-2005, and (b) presentations made at the Population Association of America annual meetings during the same time period. These comparisons suggest that recent demographic and social science research on health in developing countries has focused too much on HIV/AIDS, and too little on non-communicable diseases.'] ['Many studies document significantly positive associations between schooling attainment and wages in developing countries. But when individuals enter occupations subsequent to completing their schooling, they not only face an expected work-life path of wages, but a number of other occupational characteristics, including wage risks and disability risks, for which there may be compensating wage differentials. This study examines the relations between schooling on one hand and mean wages and these two types of risks on the other hand, based on 77,685 individuals in the labour force as recorded in six Labour Force Surveys of Pakistan. The results suggest that schooling is positively associated with mean total wages and wage rates, but has different associations with these two types of risks: Disability risks decline as schooling increases but wage risks, and even more, wage rate risks increase as schooling increases. The schooling-wage risks relation, but not the schoolingdisability risks relation, is consistent with there being compensating differentials.'] ["Summary The Mexican PROGRESA/Oportunidades anti-poverty and human resource conditional cash transfer (CCT) program has influenced considerably policies in many countries. The Mexican government engaged the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) to undertake the initial evaluation of PROGRESA/Oportunidades. This paper considers: (1) Was the PROGRESA program design influenced by prior IFPRI research? (2) Why was IFPRI chosen to undertake the initial impact evaluation of PROGRESA? (3) How did the IFPRI evaluation of PROGRESA contribute to the program? (4) Were there spillovers of the IFPRI evaluation of PROGRESA?It concludes that estimated benefit-cost ratios of IFPRI's evaluation of PROGESA considerably exceed one."] [' Conventional wisdom holds that gender gaps in schooling favoring males in developing countries generally are large, though probably declining. In this article we re-examine recent gender gaps in schooling in the developing world and come to a more nuanced characterization of their nature, which suggests that the developing countries are becoming more like the developed countries, with gender gaps that increasingly favor, rather than discriminate against, females. Using data from 38 countries with multiple Demographic and Health Surveys, we examine how the gender gaps in current school enrollment and grade completion emerge across the educational life course from age 6 to 18. We also examine how these age-specific measures have changed over time, comparing the periods 1990-99 and 2000-06. Our analyses indicate that among children who have ever attended school, girls younger than 16 years of age have equal or greater schooling progress than boys of the same age in all regions of the developing world. Copyright (c) 2010 The Population Council, Inc..'] [' Using a longitudinal survey from rural Guatemala, we examine the effect of an early childhood nutritional intervention on adult educational outcomes. An intent-to-treat model yields substantial effects of an experimental intervention that provided highly nutritious food supplements to children, a quarter century after it ended: increases of 1.2 grades completed for women and one quarter SD on standardised reading comprehension and non-verbal cognitive ability tests for both women and men. Two-stage least squares results that endogenise the actual supplement intakes corroborate these magnitudes. Improving the nutrient intakes of very young children can have substantial, long-term, educational consequences. Copyright \xef\xbf\xbd The Author(s). Journal compilation \xef\xbf\xbd Royal Economic Society 2009.'] [" Impact evaluations aim to measure the outcomes that can be attributed to a specific policy or intervention. While there have been excellent reviews of the different methods for estimating impact, insufficient attention has been paid to questions related to timing: How long after a program has begun should it be evaluated? For how long should treatment groups be exposed to a program before they benefit from it? Are there time patterns in a program's impact? This paper examines the evaluation issues related to timing, and discusses the sources of variation in the duration of exposure within programs and their implications for impact estimates. It reviews the evidence from careful evaluations of programs (with a focus on developing countries) on the ways that duration affects impacts. Copyright The Author 2009. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / the world bank . All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org, Oxford University Press."] ['What one does not know, in the form of unobserved heterogeneity, can mislead one in empirical estimates. A simple model of intrahousehold allocations illustrates the possible importance of unobserved factors such as abilities in determining human resources and their impacts. The author reviews over forty years of studies primarily from Latin America and the Caribbean, but also from elsewhere, to illustrate the substantial empirical importance of unobserved heterogeneity with regard to preferences and intrahousehold allocations, schooling returns, school quality, early life nutrition, and program evaluation.'] [' HASH(0x100a53fc0)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This article evaluates impacts of Oportunidades, a Mexican conditional cash transfer program, on educational outcomes 5.5 years after program initiation for a group of children who were ages 0-8 years preprogram. The oldest children within this age range received educational scholarships. The youngest children did not receive the scholarships because they had not yet started the third grade (the initial grade for scholarships) but were beneficiaries of the program's health components, which included nutritional supplements for children 24 months of age or younger. All of these children also may have benefited more generally from increased household income resulting from the program. This article investigates how the program differentially affected younger and older children within this age range and examines whether the early nutritional intervention led to improvements in subsequent educational performance. The program impact estimates are derived from a randomly assigned treatment and control group, which participated for different lengths of time in the program, and from a matched comparison group that had not participated prior to the collection of data in 2003. The empirical findings show positive program impacts on reducing ages at entering school for the younger children as well as on accumulated grades of schooling after 5.5 years of benefits for older children, with estimates implying a 1% reduction in the age of entry to primary and an increase in grades of schooling completed to date of about 8%-9%. (c) 2009 by The University of Chicago. All rights reserved.."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Translated from English by M. Semenova'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This article presents estimates of the impact of changes in liberalization policies on wage differentials by schooling level using a new high-quality data set for 18 Latin American countries for 1977\xe2\x80\x9398. The method controls for all fixed and time-varying country characteristics, some of which may affect the policies themselves. The results indicate that liberalizing policy changes overall have had a short-run disequalizing effect of expanding wage differentials, although this effect tends to fade away over time. This disequalizing effect is due to the strong impact of domestic financial market reform, capital account liberalization, and tax reform. However, privatization contributed to narrowing wage differentials, and increasing trade openness had no significant effect on wage differentials. Technological progress, rather than trade flows, appears to be a channel through which policy changes are affecting inequality.'] [' Reducing the incidence of low birth weight not only lowers infant mortality rates but also has multiple benefits over the life cycle. This study estimates the economic benefits of reducing the incidence of low birth weight in low-income countries, both through lower mortality rates and medical costs and through increased learning and productivity. The estimated economic benefits, under plausible assumptions, are fairly substantial, at about $510 per infant moved from a low-birth-weight status. The estimated gains are primarily from increases in labor productivity (partially through more education) and secondarily from avoiding costs due to infant illness and death. Thus there may be many interventions to reduce the incidence of low birth weight that are warranted purely on the grounds of saving resources or increasing productivity. Copyright 2006, Oxford University Press.'] [" Many studies find that parental resources importantly determine children's human capital, schooling returns, and earnings. The collective household approach suggests that, in addition, parental resources of marital partners may importantly affect resource distributions within marriage. This paper presents empirical results consistent with this framework. They suggest that parental wealth continues to play roles in augmenting welfare of children into adulthood beyond provision of human capital in early life-cycle stages or direct financial aid during adulthood, and that actual transfers from parents to adult children do not fully measure influences of parental wealth on behaviors and welfare of adult children. Copyright by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] ["We examine the importance of family background for early childhood development (ECD) using data collected in 2001 from 3,556 children ages 0-36 months in three regions of the Philippines. We focus on four main research questions: (1) are associations of family background with ECD in part proxying for health and ECD-related programs; (2) are associations of family background with ECD biased due to omission of unobserved community characteristics that may be related to placement of health and ECD-related services; (3) are there important interactions between family background and health and ECD-related programs in their effect on ECD; and (4) are there important interactions among the components of family background? Physical assets and human assets have a number of important positive associations with ECD. These include the positive relations between physical assets and the anthropometrics and hemoglobin levels of children, as well as lower occurrence of worms. Each parent's schooling and height also have notable positive effects on these outcomes and the motor and language skills of children. The failure to account for community characteristics is related to often substantial bias in the estimated effect of family background on ECD. We do not find strong evidence that interactions are important."] [' This paper considers the impact of Programa de Educaci\xc3\x83\xc2\xb3n, Salud y Alimentaci\xc3\x83\xc2\xb3n ("PROGRESA"), a large Mexican rural anti-poverty programme that had an evaluation sample in which overall treatment was randomly assigned to some communities but not others, on child nutrition. When we examine the impact of "PROGRESA" based on the presumption of randomized allocations, we find that "PROGRESA" had no or even a negative impact on child nutrition. However, not all children designated to receive nutritional supplements actually did so. Our preferred estimates - child fixed-effects estimates that control for unobserved heterogeneity that is correlated with access to the supplement - indicate a significantly positive and fairly substantial programme effect of the nutritional supplements on children 12-36\xe2\x80\x89months. They imply an increase of about a sixth in mean growth per year for these children and a lower probability of stunting. Effects are somewhat larger for children from poorer communities but whose mothers are functionally literate. The long-term consequences of these improvements are non-trivial; its impact working through adult height alone could result in a 2.9% increase in lifetime earnings. Copyright 2005 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] ["We reassess the empirical robustness of the empirical findings in Jere R. Berhman and Mark R. Rosenzweig (2002) using new information on schooling which was collected and coded independently of codings carried out by both Kate Antonovics and Arthur Goldberger, and Berhmamn and Rosenzweig. We conclude that the independently coded data and the codings by Antonovics and Goldberger provide additional support for Behrman and Rosenzweig's original results showing that the positive cross-sectional relationship between a mother's schooling and her child's schooling is not robust to controls for unmeasured, intergenerationally correlated endowments, while the positive effect of paternal schooling is robust."] [' Economic and rational-choice theories suggest that individuals form unions or have children because these decisions increase their subjective well-being or "happiness." We investigate this relation using within-MZ (identical) twin pair estimates to control for unobserved factors, such as optimistic preferences, that may simultaneously affect happiness, partnerships, and fertility. Our findings, based on Danish twins aged 25-45 and 50-70 years old, include the following. (1) Currently being in a partnership has large positive effects on happiness. (2) A first child substantially increases well-being, in analyses without controls for partnerships, and males enjoy an almost 75 percent larger happiness gain from a first-born son than from a first-born daughter; however, only females enjoy a happiness gain from the first-born child with controls for partnerships. (3) Additional children beyond the first child have a negative effect on subjective well-being for females, while there is no effect for males. (4) Ever having had children does not significantly affect the subjective well-being of males or females aged 50-70 years. Copyright 2005 The Population Council, Inc..'] ["A new antipoverty program in Mexico, PROGRESA, provides monetary transfers to families that are contingent upon their children's regular attendance at school. The benefit levels vary with the grade level and gender of the child and are intended to offset the opportunity costs of not sending children to school. The initial phase of the program was implemented as a randomized social experiment. This article uses a Markov schooling transition model applied to the experimental data to assess the impact of the subsidy program on schooling attainment and on the underlying behaviors that determine schooling attainment, including ages of matriculation, dropout rates, grade repetition rates, and school reentry rates. Results show that the program increases schooling attainment effectively by reducing dropout rates and facilitating grade progression, particularly during the transition from primary to secondary school. Many of these effects would not be clear if attention were limited to enrollments as in much of the previous literature. A simulation evaluating the effects of longer terms of exposure to the program indicates that, if children were to participate between ages 6 to 14, there would be an increase of 0.7 years in average educational attainment levels and an increase of 21% in the proportion of children attending junior secondary school, with somewhat larger effects for boys than for girls."] [" Nonexperimental data are used to evaluate impacts of a Bolivian preschool program on cognitive, psychosocial, and anthropometric outcomes. Impacts are shown to be highly dependent on age and exposure duration. To minimize the effect of distributional assumptions, program impacts are estimated as nonparametric functions of age and duration. A generalized matching estimator is developed and used to control for nonrandom selectivity into the program and into exposure durations. Comparisons with three groups-children in the feeder area not in the program, children in the program for \xe2\x89\xa4 1 month, and children living in similar areas without the program-indicate that estimates are robust for significant positive effects of the program on cognitive and psychosocial outcomes with \xe2\x89\xa5 7 months' exposure, although the age patterns of effects differ slightly by comparison group. \xc3\x82\xc2\xa9 2004 President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] ['This paper provides a summary of the work in seven papers of a Latin American Research Network project intended to identify the following information. The private and public determinants of child anthropometrics; The extent to which the private and public determinants interact and whether interactions suggest gross substitution or complementarities; and The extent to which the influence of the determinants of child anthropometrics vary by the age and gender of the child. Countries for which results are reported included in the project are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Honduras, Mexico and Nicaragua.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' We use data on monozygotic twins to obtain improved estimates of the effect of intrauterine nutrient intake on adult health and earnings and thus to evaluate the efficacy of programs aimed at increasing birthweight. We use the results to evaluate the bias in cross-sectional estimates and to assess the proposition that health conditions play a major role in determining the world distribution of income. We show that there is considerable variation in the incidence of low birthweight across countries, and our estimates suggest that there are real payoffs to increasing body weight at birth. Increasing birthweight increases adult schooling attainment and adult height for babies at most levels of birthweight, but has no effect on adult body mass. The effect of increasing birthweight on schooling, moreover, is underestimated by 50x% if there is no control for genetic and family background endowments as in cross-sectional estimates. We also find evidence that augmenting birthweight among lower-birthweight babies, but not among higher-birthweight babies, has significant labor market payoffs. However, shifting the distribution of birthweights in developing countries to that in the United States would reduce world earnings inequality by less than 1%, far less than indicated by the cross-country correlation between per-worker GDP and birthweight. \xc2\xa9 2004 President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [" New survey-based data on siblings are used to assess potential roles of bequests in redistributing income among siblings as implied by prominent models. The data are not focused on the upper tail of the wealth distribution and include both own and sib reports on own and sib's bequests, enabling use of a measurement model. Results indicate that bequests are received by almost two-thirds of children, average bequests are significant fractions of annual earnings, and there are significant differences between sibs' schooling and earnings. However, there are not significant sib differences in bequests once measurement error is incorporated into the analysis. \xc2\xa9 2004 President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] ['Special Collection 1: Social Interactions and HIV/AIDS in Rural Africa is a set of papers stemming from the conference "Research on Demographic Aspects of HIV/AIDS in Rural Africa", held at the Population Studies Center, University of Pennsylvania, October 28, 2002. The aim of the conference was to provide a forum for the presentation of results, to an audience of experts, on a variety of demographic aspects relevant for the study of HIV/AIDS in rural Africa. The aim of the special collection is to make these results available to a wider audience. Thirteen contributions were submitted to the journal Demographic Research and went through peer review. They were published on September 19, 2003 as the journal\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x84\xa2s first \xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xc5\x93special collection\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac of material on a common topic. This short summary of the collection has been added to Volume 9 in order to include full details of the collection in the current running volume as well. The following pages list the contributions and give direct links where readers may download the material from the Demographic Research website. A full list of all papers is also available at: http://www.demographic-research.org/special/1/.'] ['This paper introduces a set of papers presented at the conference "Research on Demographic Aspects of HIV/AIDS in Rural Africa", held at the Population Studies Center, University of Pennsylvania, October 28-29, 2002. The aim of the conference was to provide a forum for the presentation of results, to an audience of experts, on a variety of demographic aspects relevant for the study of HIV/AIDS in rural Africa. The aim of this volume is to provide these results to a wider audience. Although the topics covered are diverse, ranging from methodological issues in the study of HIV/AIDS such as sample attrition to substantive issues such as fertility, divorce, and women\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x84\xa2s autonomy, the papers are united by their use of two similar data sets collected in rural Malawi and Kenya. This introduction thus begins by briefly describing the contents of the volume and the collaborators, and then focuses on a detailed description of the data used by all authors and on the threats to data quality in these contexts. We conclude that demographic studies of HIV/AIDS in rural Africa are likely to face similar threats, and that these should be routinely recognized and acknowledged.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Longitudinal household data can have considerable advantages over much more widely used cross-sectional data for capturing dynamic demographic relationships. Because the collection of longitudinal data may be difficult and expensive, analysts need to assess the magnitude of the particular problems associated with longitudinal but not with cross-sectional data. One problem that has concerned many analysts is that sample attrition may make the interpretation of estimates problematic. Such attrition may be particularly severe in areas where there is considerable migration between rural and urban areas. Many analysts share the intuition that attrition is likely to be selective on characteristics such as schooling and thus that high attrition is likely to bias estimates. This paper considers the extent and implications of attrition for three longitudinal household surveys from Bolivia, Kenya, and South Africa that report very high per-year attrition rates between survey rounds. Our estimates indicate that: (a) the means for a number of critical outcome and family background variables differ significantly between those who are lost to follow-up and those who are re-interviewed; (b) a number of family background variables are significant predictors of attrition; but (c) nevertheless, the coefficient estimates for standard family background variables in regressions and probit equations for the majority of the outcome variables in all three data sets are not affected significantly by attrition. Therefore, attrition apparently is not a general problem for obtaining consistent estimates of the coefficients of interest for most of these outcomes. These results, which are very similar to those for developed countries, suggest that multivariate estimates of behavioral relations may not be biased due to attrition and thus support the collection of longitudinal data.'] ['Better child health is widely thought to improve school performance, and therefore post-school productivity. But most of the literature ignores that child health as well as child schooling reflects behavioral choices. Therefore the estimated impact of child health on child schooling in these studies may be biased, perhaps substantially. This study employs longitudinal data to investigate the impact of child health (as indicated by nutritional status) on school enrollments in rural Pakistan using an explicit dynamic model for the preferred estimates. These estimates use price shocks when children were of preschool age to control for behavior determining the child health stock measure. They indicate that child health (nutrition) is three times as important for enrollment than suggested by "naive estimates" that assume that child health is predetermined rather than determined by household choices in the presence of unobserved factors such as preferences and health endowments. These results, therefore, reinforce strongly the importance of using estimation methods that are consistent with the economic theory of households to explore the impact of some choice variables on others using socioeconomic behavioral data.'] ['High inequality has long been regarded as one of the main problems facing Latin American countries. To understand better the determinants of inequality and to help guide thinking about policy options, it is useful to know whether inequality mainly reflects low intergenerational mobility or whether it is driven by differences in individual characteristics that arise independently of family background. In this paper we use five household surveys with questions about parental socioeconomic characteristics for adults, and a set of 112 standard household surveys to examine the intergenerational transmission of schooling and occupational status in Latin America and the United States. We find that intergenerational mobility is much higher in the United States than in Latin America, that there are sizable differences in mobility within Latin America, and that mobility in Latin America is strongly associated with schooling levels and expenditures on education.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Empirical studies of the diffusion of modern methods of family planning have increasing incorporated social interaction within nonlinear models such as logits. But they have not considered the full implications of these nonlinear specifications. This paper considers the implications of using nonlinear models in empirical analyses of the impact of family programs, modulated by social interaction, on reproductive behavior. Three implications of nonlinear models, in comparison with linear models, are developed. (1) With nonlinear models, there may be both low and high contraceptive-use equilibria (i.e., the ultimate level of use of modern family planning that a population can be expected to reach after the effects of a sustained change in a family planning program have worked through the population) rather than just one equilibrium as in linear models. If there are multiple equilibria, then one striking and important result is that a transitory large program effort may move a community from sustained low- to high-level contraceptive use. (2) With nonlinear models the extent to which a social interaction multiplies program efforts depends on whether the community is at a low or high level of contraceptive use rather than being independent of the level of contraceptive use as in linear models. (3) With nonlinear models, intensified social interaction can retard or enhance the diffusion of family planning, in contrast to only enhancing diffusion as within linear models. To clarify these implications, for comparison a simple and more transparent linear model is also discussed. Illustrative estimates are presented of simple linear and nonlinear models for rural Kenya that demonstrate that some of these effects may be considerable.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The stronger are the associations between household income and child schooling, the lower is intergenerational social mobility and the less equal is opportunity. This study estimates the associations between household income and children's school success in Vietnam. The estimates indicate that these associations are considerable. For example, the income elasticity of completed grades is five times the median estimate of earlier studies. Moreover, this association is strongest for grades completed per year of school, not for completed grades, on which most of the previous literature has focused. There are some gender differences, the most important being a smaller association between income and grades completed per year of school for boys than for girls. This difference implies that schooling of girls is treated as more of a luxury (less of a necessity) than is schooling of boys. This article also investigates some ways in which policies relate to household incomes. School fees are progressive, but school fees are only about one-third of what households pay directly to schools and are a much smaller proportion of a household's total school-related expenditures. Total household expenditures paid directly to schools increase with household income less proportionately than do school fees alone, so the overall structure of such payments is less progressive than is the structure of school fees. Because school enrollment is positively related to household income, moreover, the structure of school fees is less progressive for the entire population than for the selected subset that has children enrolled in school. Further, the two school quality measures that have the strongest positive association with children's school success are much more available to higher-income households, meaning that higher-income households have greater school expenditures in part because they are obtaining higher-quality schooling and not because charges for the same quality schooling are progressive across income classes. Copyright 1999 by Oxford University Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" A methodology is developed for examining savings behavior in rural areas of developing countries that explicitly incorporates the sequential decision process in agriculture. The approach is used to examine the relative importance of alternative forms of savings in the presence and absence of formal financial intermediaries. The authors' results, based on stage-specific panel data from Pakistan, provide evidence that the presence of financial intermediaries importantly influences the use of formal savings and transfers for income smoothing. They also find that there are significant biases in evaluations of the savings-income relationship that are inattentive to the within-year dynamics of agricultural production."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Books Reviewed include: The Economics of Agriculture: Selected Papers of D. Gale Johnson (Vol. 1) and Papers in Honor of D. Gale Johnson (Vol. 2) by John M. Antle and Daniel Sumner'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Child health and nutrition are strongly associated with educational achievement. But associations do not necessarily indicate causality; estimates generally are likely to be biased in one direction or the other. As a result analysts and policymakers should have much less confidence in findings about the effect of health on schooling success than has been claimed in previous surveys. The evidence is more nuanced and qualified than is often recognized but may still support the conclusion that health may have considerable effects on postschooling productivity. Policy implications point toward providing public subsidies for the collection, analysis, and dissemination of information about the links between health and education; and toward providing services to improve the health of poor children. Copyright 1996 by Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The authors assess the impact of college quality on women's earnings and the influence of family and individual endowments on college choice using new data from a survey of identical and nonidentical twins born in Minnesota. The estimates reject models that ignore school choice. The statistically preferred estimates suggest that Ph.D.-granting, private universities with well-paid senior faculty and smaller enrollments produce students who have significantly higher earnings later in life. Both the quantity of schooling and the quality of schooling resources are allocated to higher-endowed individuals, which exacerbates preexisting inequality in human capital and biases conventional estimates of school quality effects. Copyright 1996 by MIT Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Better understanding would be valuable, for sub-Saharan Africa, of: (i) determinants of human resource investments; (ii) their returns; and (iii) policy implications. Such understanding can be obtained from behavioural data only by integrated modelling, data and estimation. Simple analytical frameworks are considered for investigating: private behaviours that determine human resource investments and their returns; economic rationale for policies; implications of endogenous policies for policy evaluation; alternative means of human resource related service delivery; and larger environments in which human resource investments are made and returns realized. Research areas are noted for which gains are likely to be greatest.'] ['Girls lag markedly behind boys in education in many developing countries, which may slow economic growth and increase inequity. This paper uses indicators of the output of the education production process, cognitive skills, to characterize and to investigate the determinants of the large educational gender gap in rural Pakistan. Local school availability accounts for about a third of the total cognitive achievement gender gap and over two-fifths of that in numeracy, which implies that policies that increased local school availability for girls could reduce substantially the gender gaps in cognitive skills. To further reduce these gender gaps will require policies that focus on the demand side of the market, where, our results suggest, the response to modest changes in incentives may be high.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Women are thought to be disadvantaged in developing countries. One of the major respects in which they are conjectured to be disadvantaged is that labor-market rewards to their schooling are less than those for males. This study investigates whether there are gender differentials in Indonesian wage and earnings relations. The results indicate that, although the returns to work experience are greater for males than for females, the marginal rates of return to schooling beyond the primary level are significantly greater for females. Copyright 1995 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd'] [" The authors show how comparisons between the within-twin correlations of human capital outcomes across identical and nonidentical twins can be used to identify the variability in the individual-specific component of endowments and the responsiveness of schooling to individual-specific endowments in the family and in the marriage market even when schooling is measured with error. Estimates from two twins samples indicate that 27 (42) percent of the variance in log earnings (obesity) is due to variability in individual-specific endowments, allocations of schooling reinforce specific endowments, and individual-specific earnings endowments of men and their wives' schooling are negatively associated. Copyright 1994 by University of Chicago Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Intra-household allocations appear to be quite important in the determination of time use, human resource investments, and intra- and inter-generational transfers in developing countries. The nature of such allocations has important implications for the efficiency, equity, and efficacy of the micro and macro-economic policies. In the past decade and a half, there has been substantial progress in modelling intra-household allocations in ways that lead to testable propositions despite enormous data limitations regarding the nature of the allocation of unobserved variables and the impact of unobserved heterogeneous endowments. The parent-child exchange literature is a subset of these studies that advances in two dimensions by allowing children to have different preferences from their parents' and by incorporating a broader notion of interactions, including the attention provided by the children to their parents. Yet this literature has most of the problems that are indicated with regard to the unified household preference models. The exchange literature to date has assumed away heterogeneity in endowments which plays such a critical role in the studies that assume the unified household preferences. It is also silent on how human resource investments enter into the relations between parents and children. The collective models of household behaviour emphasise that different household members. usually husband and wife, may have different preferences and a different command over resources. Interesting theoretical results have been derived concerning the conditions under which the income-sharing rules and the allocation of non-assignable goods can be derived. But there are many limitations in this literature. The literature on the collective models of household behaviours is static and gives little consideration to the dynamic processes and learning."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The objective of this paper is to place Pakistani human capital investments in the past quarter century in an international perspective. As background, a simple analytical perspective is presented first. Then empirical experience from various developing countries is summarised. This relates to some dimensions of the determinants and the impact of human capital investments and related policies. Next, various dimensions of Pakistani human capital investments in schooling and health are compared with the international experience of the past quarter century, controlling for per capita income and initial literacy rates and subject to caveates about such comparisons. These comparisons suggest that, in the aggregate, Pakistan has had relatively low investments in schooling and relatively high investments in health. Consideration of the composition of these investments suggests that, in a comparative sense, Pakistani investments have been skewed towards higher rather than basic education, towards physician-intensive curative rather than basic preventative health care, towards males relative to females, and towards middle-and upper-income groups that tend to benefit more from post-primary schooling and from physician-related health services. The concluding section speculates on the implications of this perspective for Pakistani human capital investment policies.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Current conventional wisdom is that one major component in the more successful development strategies of a number of developing countries has been substantial human resource investments. The objective of this paper is to summarize the empirical evidence on the determinants of and the impact of human resource investments in developing countries. A simple analytical perspective first is presented. Then empirical experience from various developing countries on some dimensions of the determinants of the impact of human capital investments and related policies is summarized. Finally, the implications for Indian human capital investments- that are compared with those in other developing countries in a companion paper-are summarized.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The authors examine the pattern of resource utilization and output supply in Indian agriculture, using a panel of 46 plots observed through six growing seasons. The examination is concluded using a generalization consisting of replacing the Leontief base with a more flexible constant elasticity base, at a cost of one additional parameter to be estimated. For estimation the authors develop a feasible nonlinear generalized least squares estimator that controls for the fact that many plots grow only one crop. These two features generate empirical results that are plausible in light of the neoclassical model of profit maximizing behavior. Coauthors are C. A. Knox Lovell, Robert A. Pollak, and Robin C. Sickles. Copyright 1992 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Standard Estimates of the rates of return to primary schooling in most developing countries are high, and have been used to support advocacy of increased investments in primary schooling. But the standard estimates ignore repetition and dropout experience. This paper develops a procedure for estimating the impact of repetition and dropout rates and applies it to Indonesian data. The results are striking, suggesting that standard procedures overstate substantially the economic returns to schooling in Indonesia (eg. by 38 to 78 percent for primary schooling), distort the pattern of estimated returns across schooling levels by overestimating especially the returns to the lower schooling levels, and misrepresent the relative returns to schooling investments among groups identified by sex, rural-urban residence, and age. Copyright 1991 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Considerable uncertainty remains about the human impact of macroeconomic adjustment. Analysis of the impact of adjustment on the poor and on the social sectors is difficult because it involves evaluating a counterfactual situation in which households are affected by prices, incomes, and public services with the possibility of substantial substitutions--all within an economywide framework with complicated concurrent and lagged interactions. In this articled, the authors utilize time-series data for Jamaica to examine whether macroeconomic adjustment, initiated in the early 1980s but intensified in 1984-85, was associated with significant deterioration in various indicators of health, nutritional, and welfare outcomes, particularly among the poor. Although we find evidence of substantial cuts in governmental expenditures on social services, there is little confirmation of significant short-run deterioration in human capital indicators during the adjustment period. Copyright 1991 by Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Good estimates of nutrient intake responses to prices and income are very useful for the evaluation of the numerous efforts to improve nutrition in many developing countries through price-subsidy and income-generation policies. We discuss three problems in standard estimates of these responses and then illustrate their implications for nutrient demand relations for a poor sample from rural south India. (1) Intra-household nutrient allocations usually are ignored. In this case nutrient intakes for females systematically have algebraically lower price elasticities than do those for males, which may leave the females particularly vulnerable at times of food shortages. (2) Unobserved fixed effects may bias the estimates of responses to observed variables. In this case not only the community fixed effects on which the previous literature has focused, but also household and individual fixed effects are important. Failure to control for them results in substantial algebraically upward biases in many estimated price responses. (3) Most previous studies use current instead of permanent income, which a priori may account for the low estimated income elasticities. In this case, however, the use of permanent income does not change the conclusion that the nutrient intakes responses to income are quite small.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["There is debate on whether schooling causes increases in productivity or whether the estimated relationships reflect ability, knowledge, tastes etc., that are associated with schooling. This paper examines the impact of women's schooling on women's health and nutrition with and without controls for unobserved childhood background factors related to ability and motivation. Random and fixed effects models are estimated using data on adult sisters. Both sets of estimates reinforce the relationships found in standard estimates-that women's schooling positively affects their health and nutrient intakes; the latter result is particularly robust."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The income elasticity of calories generally is substantially smaller than the income elasticity of food expenditure. One reason may be an increasing concern for food variety as incomes increase. Food variety can be linked with two characteristics of food indifference curves: (1) curvature and (2) location of the curves relative to the axes. Estimates suggest increasing taste for variety as food budgets increase. Therefore, such taste for variety apparently underlies in part the low income elasticities for calorie demand, which in turn cast doubt on the World Bank assertion that the nutrient intakes of poor populations will improve rapidly with income. Copyright 1989 by MIT Press.'] ['Book Review of Hazell, Peter, Carlos Pomareda and Alberto Valder (eds.), Crop Insurance for Agricultural Development: Issues and Experience. The John Hopkins University Press for the International Food Policy Research Institute, Baltimore and London, 1986, pp. xiii+322'] [' Unequal access to financing for education may be an important source of educational differences. The authors develop a model relating sib schooling and earnings similarities to sibship, size with and without equal access, and estimate it for the education of veterans, for whom the GI Bill assured equal access, and for their children, who had no such government assistance. They find an inverse relationship between sibship size and sib schooling and earnings similarities for the children, but not for the veterans. They conclude that, in the absence of equal access policies, unequal access is an important source of educational differences. Copyright 1989 by University of Chicago Press.'] [' Over half the establishments for which reasonably complete data were collected in the 1975 Indonesian Medium and Large Scale Manufacturing Survey did not survive until the 1986 Survey. This paper explores what observed characteristics of these establishments in 1975 predict the duration of survival over the 1975-85 period. Two-limit Tobit estimates of the years surveyed indicate that the establishments with higher survival durations were typically older and larger; were located in more concentrated industries; and had larger foreign shares, proportionately fewer family workers, a larger share of their electricity own-produced, and a higher ratio of gifts and donations to value added. Copyright 1989 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] [" The authors modify R. A. Fisher's model by incorporating measures on the environment that may be correlated across kin groups. They estimate a model of schooling attainment using data on eight kin groups and find a large contribution of generic endowments to the variance in schooling, though certain aspects of the environment matter. Copyright 1989 by University of Chicago Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" The authors investigate the impact of various schooling investment strategies on family and per capita earnings within a framework that integrates effects on earnings, family size, marital status, and labor-force participation. Empirical estimates for prerevolutionary Nicaragua suggest that the choice of schooling strategies may have important effects on the earnings distribution. Uniform schooling increments are equalizing only if the rate of return to schooling falls as schooling levels rise. Reductions in the variance of women's schooling have substantial simulated equalizing effects. Indirect effects of schooling, via marital status, etc., often play a significant role in these effects. Copyright 1988 by The London School of Economics and Political Science."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper develops a multinutrient input, multihealth related outcome model of intrahousehold nutrient allocation that permits identification of gender preferences and equity-productivity tradeoffs. Estimates for rural South India suggest that parents display male preference during the lean season, particularly in lower-caste households. Parents also exhibit inequality aversion so pure investment models may be misleading, though such inequality aversion is less in the lean season than estimated for the United States. The combination of male preference and limited inequality aversion means that the nutritionally most vulnerable-especially females-may be at considerable risk when food is scarcest. Copyright 1988 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The World Bank and others maintain that the major mechanism for improving nutrition in poor communities is increases in income. Aggregate estimates of food expenditure are consistent with such a possibility, implying income/expenditure elasticities close to one. However, the high degree of aggregation at which such estimates are made means that the considerable increase in price per nutrient as income increases is ignored, and the nutrient elasticities are therefore overstated. Estimates for a rural south Indian sample indicate that this bias is considerable and that the true nutrient elasticities with respect to income may be close to zero. Copyright 1987 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' A local governmental welfare function is specified to explore two of its central characteristics: the equity-productivity trade-off and differential weights across neighborhoods. The constrained maximization model is estimated using service outcomes (safety) in the welfare function, as opposed to publicly provided inputs (police), over neighborhoods. The equity-productivity trade-off is found to be considerable, and not all neighborhoods are weighted equally. The results show that inequality aversion and unequal concern by local government over service outcomes must be addressed explicitly to understand the observed distribution of publicly provided inputs, with important implications for standard analysis of local governmental behavior. Copyright 1987 by American Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Birth-order effects are posited by many to affect earnings and schooling. The authors show how such effects can be interpreted to shift either the earnings possibility frontier for siblings or parental preferences. The authors find empirical evidence for birth- order effects on (age-adjusted) schooling and on earnings for young U.S. adults, though the latter is not robust for all specifications. The examination of intrahousehold allocations suggests that these birth-order differences occur, despite parental preferences or prices, by birth order favoring later-borns, apparently because of stronger endowment effects that favor firstborns. Copyright 1986 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']