 ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['En este art\xc3\xadculo se determina el nivel \xc3\xb3ptimo de reservas internacionales en t\xc3\xa9rminos de un modelo estad\xc3\xadstico en el cual las reservas afectan tanto la probabilidad de una interrupci\xc3\xb3n s\xc3\xbabita de flujos de capital, como los costos en producto asociados, al reducir los efectos de balance producidos porla dolarizaci\xc3\xb3n de pasivos. Se encuentra que las reservas observadas en v\xc3\xadsperas de la crisis financiera no estuvieron \xe2\x80\x93en promedio\xe2\x80\x93 alejadas de los niveles \xc3\xb3ptimos derivados del modelo'] ['This paper addresses the issue of the optimal stock of international reserves in terms of a statistical model in which reserves affect both the probability of a sudden stop \xe2\x80\x93as well as associated output costs\xe2\x80\x93 by reducing the balance-sheet effects of liability dollarization. Observed reserves on the eve of the global financial crisis were\xe2\x80\x93on average\xe2\x80\x93not distant from optimal reserves'] ['The paper claims that conventional monetary theory obliterates the central role played by media of exchange in the workings and instability of capitalist economies; and that a significant part of the financial system depends on the resiliency of paper currency and liquid assets that have been built on top of it. The resilience of the resulting financial tree is questionable if regulators are not present to adequately trim its branches to keep it from toppling due to its own weight or minor wind gusts. The issues raised in the paper are not entirely new, but have been ignored in conventional theory. This is very strange, because disregard for these key issues has lasted for more than half a century. Are we destined to continue making the same mistake? The paper argues that a way to prevent this is to understand the issuesf roots, and traces them to the Keynes/Hicks tradition. In addition, the paper presents a narrative and some empirical evidence suggesting a key channel from Liquidity Crunch to gSudden Stop,h which supports the view that liquidity/credit shocks have been a central factor in recent crises. In addition, the paper claims that liquidity considerations help to explain (1) why a credit boom may precede a financial crisis, (2) why capital inflows grow in the run-up to balance-of-payments crises, and (3) why gross flows are procyclical.'] ['In contrast with the financial multiplier literature, this note explores a case in which the shock triggering a financial crisis stems from the financial sector itself; it is not a shock stemming from the real sector which gets amplified by, say, agency problems. The basic intuition is provided by the bank-run literature of the Diamond and Dybvig (1983) variety. Financial development is modeled as a mechanism that endows real assets (e.g., land and capital) with liquidity. However, liquidity can be impaired by shocks that are equivalent to a bank run. Liquidity creation enhances real asset prices, while a liquidity crunch generates asset price collapse. This bubble-looking episode is not driven by standard fundamentals, although it is fully in line with rationality. In this context, devoid of other frictions like price stickiness, the note examines the effect of monetary policy in the absence of nominal rigidities. It shows that preventing price deflation is not enough to offset relative (to output) asset price meltdown, but lower policy interest rates increase relative asset prices and steady-state output. Moreover, in the neighborhood of a first-best capital allocation, an increase in the liquidity of capital may lower the welfare of the representative individual, even if the higher liquidity of capital is sustainable and, hence, not destroyed by future crash \xe2\x80\x93 illustrating the possibility of \xe2\x80\x9cexcessive\xe2\x80\x9d financial innovation. An extension of the basic model supports the conjecture that low policy interest rates may have given further incentives to the development of \xe2\x80\x9cshadow banking.\xe2\x80\x9d'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The frequency of financial crises over recent decades makes an in-depth study of the phenomenon imperative. This should involve particular attention to those points the different crises have in common, so as to draw lessons that can be used by financial authorities, regulators and the actual participants in the financial system. The causes of the crisis and the efficacy (or inefficacy) of response by governments are essential aspects that must be studied in order to determine the lessons to be drawn and recommendations to be made. Besides their shared border and their strong economic, social and cultural links, Mexico and the United States have also in recent times faced deep financial crises which \xe2\x80\x94leaving aside the different historical moments and varying degrees of sophistication of their respective financial markets\xe2\x80\x94 have much in common. The Centro de Estudios Espinosa Yglesias (CEEY) brought together a group of experts in financial systems and public finance to debate the origin of the above-mentioned financial crises and the viability of means for anticipating them. This is particularly important since the environment in which we now find ourselves is one where technical advances and financial innovations are themselves a source of risk; this is because the speed of development often outstrips the capacity of regulators and financial supervisors to keep abreast of them. The experts also analyzed the responses of the respective authorities to the two crises, their effectiveness and alternative strategies that might have been applied. Finally, it was of interest to the CEEY to find mechanisms that might minimize the risk of financial crises and reduce the cost of the rescue programs that ensue upon them.// La frecuencia de las crisis financieras en decenios recientes hace imperativo profundizar en su estudio, en particular en los puntos en com\xc3\xban entre ellas, para inferir lecciones que puedan ser utilizadas por autoridades financieras, reguladores y por los propios participantes en un sistema financiero. Las causas de la crisis y la efectividad (o inefectividad) de la respuesta por parte de los gobiernos son aspectos esenciales por estudiar para determinar lecciones y recomendaciones. M\xc3\xa9xico y los Estados Unidos, adem\xc3\xa1s de compartir frontera y de sostener fuertes lazos econ\xc3\xb3micos, sociales y culturales, han enfrentado en la historia reciente grandes crisis financieras que \xe2\x80\x94a reserva de las diferencias de tiempo y del grado de refinaci\xc3\xb3n de sus respectivos mercados financieros\xe2\x80\x94 coinciden en muchos aspectos. El Centro de Estudios Espinosa Yglesias (CEEY) ha reunido a un grupo de expertos en sistemas financieros y finanzas p\xc3\xbablicas para debatir el origen de dichas crisis financieras y la viabilidad de anticiparlas. Esto es en particular relevante porque enfrentamos un entorno en que los avances tecnol\xc3\xb3gicos y la innovaci\xc3\xb3n financiera implican riesgos, debido a que muchas veces van un paso adelante de los reguladores y los supervisores financieros. Asimismo, se analiza las respuestas de las respectivas autoridades a las crisis, su efectividad y las opciones que podr\xc3\xadan haberse aplicado. Finalmente, es de inter\xc3\xa9s para el CEEY encontrar mecanismos que minimicen el riesgo de las crisis financieras y el costo de los rescates que les suceden.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Sudden Stops are associated with increased volatility in relative prices. We introduce a model based on information acquisition to rationalize this increased volatility. An empirical analysis of the conditional variance of the wholesale price to consumer price ratio using panel ARCH techniques confirms the relevance of Sudden Stops and potential balance-sheet effects as key determinants of relative-price volatility, where balance-sheet effects are captured by the interaction of a proxy for potential changes in the real exchange rate (linked to the degree of external leverage of the absorption of tradable goods) and a measure of domestic liability dollarization.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Using a sample of 32 developed and developing countries we analyze the empirical characteristics of Sudden Stops in capital flows and the relevance of balance sheet effects in the likelihood of their materialization. We find that large real exchange rate (RER) fluctuations coming hand in hand with Sudden Stops are basically an emerging market (EM) phenomenon. Sudden Stops seem to come in bunches, grouping together countries that are different in many respects. However, countries are similar in that they remain vulnerable to large RER fluctuations - be it because they could be forced to large adjustments in the absorption of tradable goods, and/or because the size of dollar liabilities in the banking system (i.e., domestic liability dollarization, or DLD) is high. Openness, understood as a large supply of tradable goods that reduces leverage over the current account deficit, coupled with DLD, are key determinants of the probability of Sudden Stops. The relationship between Openness and DLD in the determination of the probability of Sudden Stops is highly non-linear, implying that the interaction of high current account leverage and high dollarization may be a dangerous cocktail.'] ['This paper argues that much of the debate on choosing an exchange rate regime misses the boat. It begins by discussing the standard theory of choice between exchange rate regimes, and then explores the weaknesses in this theory, especially when it is applied to emerging market economies. It then discusses a range of institutional traits that might predispose a country to favor either fixed or floating rates, and then turns to the converse question of whether the choice of exchange rate regime may favor the development of certain desirable institutional traits. The conclusion from the analysis is that the choice of exchange rate regime is likely to be of second order importance to the development of good fiscal, financial, and monetary institutions in producing macroeconomic success in emerging market countries. This suggests that less attention should be focused on the general question whether a floating or a fixed exchange rate is preferable, and more on these deeper institutional arrangements. A focus on institutional reforms rather than on the exchange rate regime may encourage emerging market countries to be healthier and less prone to the crises that we have seen in recent years.'] ['Capital inflows to emerging market economies rose to unprecedented heights in the first part of the 1990s and then collapsed very rapidly in the second. Such volatility could partly be explained by financial vulnerability in the emerging markets themselves, but the global nature of the phenomenon raises the suspicion that the world financial market is wrought with systemic problems that are largely independent of the individual countries affected. This paper puts forward the conjecture that phenomena such as contagion could stem from the way the capital market operates (for example, crises generated by margin calls). These systemic phenomena require systemic instruments. Unfortunately, few are available. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) operates more like a fire department than like a central bank. Liquidity is sprayed where fire is found, not on the system as a whole in the manner of a central bank faced with a liquidity crisis.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Many emerging market countries have suffered financial crises. One view blames soft pegs for these crises. Adherents of this view suggest that countries move to corner solutions-hard pegs or floating exchange rates. We analyze the behavior of exchange rates, reserves, and interest rates to assess whether there is evidence that country practice is moving toward corner solutions. We focus on whether countries that claim they are floating are indeed doing so. We find that countries that say they allow their exchange rate to float mostly do not-there seems to be an epidemic case of "fear of floating." \xc2\xa9 2001 the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['I. Introduction II. Time Inconsistency III. The Origins of Financial Crises IV. The Nature of Financial Crises V. Emerging Bond Markets VI. National Economic Policy Proposals VII. International Economic Policy Proposals VIII. Alternative Monetary Rules IX. Conclusions'] [' The paper reviews the main challenges faced by policymakers in emerging market economies, EM, in light of recent financial crises, and taking into account salient factors like the existence of partial dollarization, imperfect credibility, weak financial systems, and contagion. The standard theory of optimal currency areas is discussed and criticized for omitting the above factors. When these factors are taken into account, an extreme foreign exchange regime like dollarization is shown to become much more attractive. The paper discusses the pros and cons of dollarization and, among other things, shows that the lack of a lender of last resort is not necessarily a major drawback in EM. The paper also discusses inflation targeting, IT. In a formal model, it is shown that IT could be subject to credibility problems similar to those found in exchange rate-based stabilization programs.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper argues that the globalization of securities markets may promote contagion among investors by weakening incentives for gathering costly country-specific information and by strengthening incentives for imitating arbitrary market portfolios. In the presence of short-selling constraints, the utility gain of gathering information at a fixed cost converges to a constant level and may diminish as securities markets grow. Moreover, if a portfolio manager's marginal cost for yielding below-market returns exceeds the marginal gain for above-market returns, there is a range of optimal portfolios in which all investors imitate arbitrary market portfolios and this range widens as the market grows. Numerical simulations suggest that these frictions can have significant quantitative implications and they may induce large capital flows in emerging markets.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['Se trata de hacer un aporte a la comprensi\xc3\xb3n del concepto de globalizaci\xc3\xb3n. Luego se har\xc3\xa1 especial \xc3\xa9nfasis cambiario, puesto que, a pesar de no ser necesario lo m\xc3\xa1s importante dentro de la organizaci\xc3\xb3n de un pa\xc3\xads, es un tema que siempre se hace presente, y es una de las pocas variables o instituciones sobre las que se tiene control. Adem\xc3\xa1s, es sabido que existe un movimiento hacia la dolarizaci\xc3\xb3n en algunos pa\xc3\xadses, liderados por la Argentina.'] ['The paper studies mechanisms through which a sudden stop in international credit flows may bring about financial and balance of payments crises. It is shown that these crises can occur even though the current account deficit is fully financed by foreign direct investment. However, equity and long-term bond financing may shield the economy from sudden stop crises. The paper also examines possible factors that could trigger sudden stops, and argues that the greater independence that countries have, as compared to regions of a given country, could help to explain why sudden stop crises are more prevalent and destructive at international than at national levels.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Half a decade has passed since the resurgence of international capital flows to many developing countries and history has, once again, shown that foreign investment is prone to repeated booms and busts. Mexico's 1994 crisis is but a recent example that highlights the vulnerability of capital-importing countries to abrupt reversals; thus, an aim of policy is to reduce that vulnerability. This paper discusses the principal causes, facts, and policies that have characterized capital inflows to Asia and Latin America. In particular, the authors examine what policies have proved useful in protecting these economies from the vagaries of international capital flow."] [' This paper examines the recent financial debacle in Mexico and its effects on other emerging markets (the Tequila effect). I argue that financial and liquidity considerations--as opposed to current account sustainability or real exchange rate considerations--appear to have played a prominent role. Special attention is given to financial factors in Latin America. On this basis it is concluded that Mexico and Argentina were particularly vulnerable to speculative attacks. For contrast, the experience of Austria is examined and compared with that of Mexico. The analysis suggests that the remarkable stability of Austria--which pegged its currency to the Deutsche Mark for more than 15 years--may be due to the low volatility of its monetary aggregates. I also argue that financial factors could account for multiple self-fulfilling equilibria, helping to explain the sudden and deep reversals in Mexico and Argentina. It concludes with a discussion on policy implications. I suggest that, aside from the usual fiscal prudence advice, countries should pay special attention to the banking system and the maturity of public debt. Furthermore, the appropriateness of an exchange rate regime should take into account the characteristics of the financial sector. Copyright @ 1996 by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd. All rights reserved.'] ["This paper claims that the roots of Mexico's balance-of-payments crisis are found in the prevailing high degree of capital mobility and financial globalization. Under these circumstances, shifts in foreign capital flows and anticipation of a banking-system bailout may produce large imbalances between stocks of financial assets and foreign reserves, threatening the sustainability of currency pegs. Econometric analysis suggests that 1/2 of Mexico's reserve losses could be accounted for by these phenomena. Large financial imbalances are also fertile ground for self-fulfilling-prophesy crises which lead devaluations to produce deep recessions. These difficulties can be partly remedied by appropriate policies.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' In high inflation countries, policymakers often end up paying interest on part of the money supply. Higher interest rates on money have been used as a disinflationary policy. This paper analyzes the effectiveness of such a policy in the context of a closed-economy, staggered-prices model. Both a permanent and a temporary rise in the interest rate on money provoke an inflation at the expense of a recession. When the rise is temporary, however, the initial inflation slowdown is eventually followed by an upsurge of inflation over the level prevailing before the policy was implemented. Copyright 1996 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper presents a theoretical and empirical analysis of policies aimed at setting a more depreciated level of the real exchange rate. An intertemporal optimizing model suggests that, in the absence of changes in fiscal policy, a more depreciated level of the real exchange can only be attained temporarily. This can be achieved by means of higher inflation and/or higher real interest rates, depending on the degree of capital mobility. Evidence for Brazil, Chile, and Colombia supports the model's prediction that undervalued real exchange rates are associated with higher inflation.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' In high inflation countries, policymakers often end up paying interest on part of the money supply. Higher interest rates on money have been used both to reduce inflation and to defend the domestic currency. This paper analyzes the effectiveness of such a policy in the context of an open economy with flexible prices and exchange rates. A temporary increase in the interest rate on money reduces the price level on impact but inflation follows an explosive path afterwards. The domestic currency appreciates on impact but begins to depreciate immediately thereafter. Hence, the analysis does not support the use of high interest rates in disinflationary programs. Copyright 1995 by Ohio State University Press.'] ['Exchange rate-based stabilizations often result in an initial output expansion. One explanation for this phenomenon has been that, in the presence of inflation inertia, a reduction in the nominal interest rate causes the domestic real interest rate to fall, thus increasing aggregate demand. This paper reexamines this issue in the context of an intertemporal optimizing model. In contrast to previous results, the analysis shows that, if the intertemporal elasticity of substitution is smaller than the elasticity of substitution between traded and home goods, a permanent reduction in the rate of devaluation leads to a fall in aggregate demand.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' "Since 1990, capital has flowed from industrial countries to developing regions like Latin America and parts of Asia. Most countries welcome reentry into international capital markets. However, capital inflows often are associated with inflationary pressures, a real exchange rate appreciation, a deterioration in the current account, and a boom in bank lending. This paper briefly examines how these inflows have altered the macroeconomic environment in a number of Asian and Latin American countries, and discusses the pros and cons of the policy options". Copyright 1994 Western Economic Association International.'] ['This paper examines factors determining the allocation of bank credit to the enterprise sector and the implications of this allocation for aggregate supply and macroeconomic performance in the former socialist economies. It first develops a model to explain how changes in demand for money by the household sector directly influence the availability of working capital, which in turn determines aggregate output and employment. It then examines factors influencing the allocation of bank credit between enterprises and other borrowers, in particular the government. Finally, the paper discusses both the relative merits of bank finance and equity capital in financing medium-term and long-term investment and constraints on the development of efficient equity markets.'] ['Este trabajo presenta un an\xc3\xa1lisis te\xc3\xb3rico y emp\xc3\xadrico de las pol\xc3\xadticas dirigidas a alcanzar un nivel m\xc3\xa1s depreciado de la tasa de cambio real. Un modelo de optimizaci\xc3\xb3n intertempolar sugiere que, en ausencia de cambios en la pol\xc3\xadtica fiscal, un nivel m\xc3\xa1s depreciado de la tasa de un mayor nivel de la inflaci\xc3\xb3n y/o tasa real de inter\xc3\xa9s, dependiendo del grado de movilidad de capital.'] ['This paper examines trade reforms of uncertain duration in economies affected by real shocks. These reforms induce consumption booms regardless of their duration and of the degree of intertemporal substitution. A recession may follow the boom, depending on the outcome of the reform and on whether government transfers offset wealth effects of tariffs. Observed booms in reforming economies are a noisy indicator of credibility because they reflect both policy uncertainty and real shocks, and the credibility component is determined in part by the properties of real shocks. Lack of credibility produces generally smaller fluctuations than those induced by real disturbances.'] [' This paper analyzes the choice of a nominal anchor in disinflation programs in chronic inflation countries. Both theory and evidence suggest several conclusions. (i) The recessionary effects associated with disinflation appear in the early stages of money-based programs but only in the late stages of exchange rate-based programs. (ii) Lack of credibility is more disruptive under fixed exchange rates than under floating exchange rates. (iii) Attempting to pursue a disinflationary policy while maintaining a given level of the real exchange rate is likely to be self-defeating. (iv) A high degree of currency substitution favors the exchange rate as the nominal anchor. Copyright 1994 Western Economic Association International.'] ['Real bank credit in Eastern European countries after their recent stabilization programs is shown to have fallen sharply, except in the case of Hungary. The meaning of the fall is discussed from the present value and liquidity perspectives. Moreover, it is shown that the hypothesis that the output contraction may partly owe to a credit contraction cannot be ruled out. The hypothesis is tested on a sample of 85 branches of industry in Poland. Also analyzed are the rationale for expecting a connection between credit and output and the policy options available to mitigate the liquidity crunch in postsocialist economies.'] ['The characteristics of recent capital inflows into Latin America are discussed. It is argued that these inflows are partly explained by conditions outside the region, like the recession in the United States and lower international interest rates. The importance of external factors suggests that a reversal of those conditions may lead to a future capital outflow, increasing the macroeconomic vulnerability of Latin American economies. Policy options, it is argued, are limited.'] [' This paper examines optimal monetary policy under uncertainty in a context in which policymakers are able to make credible policy commitments. The authors study an optimal taxation problem of minimizing the social cost of financing a stochastic and exogenous level of government transfers. Since, in the basic model, the welfare costs of inflation derive only from expected inflation, the optimal monetary policy is highly responsive to the state of nature. In a benchmark case in which all shocks are transitory, the optimal policy calls for loading all the variability of government transfers on the shoulders of the inflation tax. Copyright 1993 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited.'] ['In this short note we further discuss the role of macroeconomic policies to deal with surges in capital inflows. Primarily policies aimed at avoiding financial crises or an overvaluation of the real exchange rate.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Dismantling subsidies could give rise to serious macroeconomic difficulties in the short run. This article explores a view based on the enterprise sector as a central source and main channel of the stagflation phenomenon, using as an example the stagflation that followed the 1990 stabilization program in Poland. The stagflation phenomenon is linked to features of the financial market that are somewhat peculiar to reforming socialist economies: the weak credit links between households and enterprises, and the existence of large interenterprise debt. The policy implications of the enterprise-side view include more explicit consideration of initial conditions in the credit market, implementation of privatization schemes, and the development of a domestic banking system. Copyright 1992 by Oxford University Press.'] [' High interest rates are considered an effective tool for stopping high inflation. The case for a policy of high interest rates is developed in terms of a conventional IS-LM model. However, among other things, the model ignores some central aspects of modern credit markets. In particular high interest rates may give rise to nonperforming bank loans, thus seriously jeopardizing the effectiveness of the policy. Examples are developed in which it would be optimal to aim for equilibriums of low, rather than high, interest rates. One of these examples hinges on the existence of nonindexed domestic debt. Copyright 1992 by Oxford University Press.'] [' The role of debt maturity is analyzed in a framework that blends tax smoothing with time inconsistency of optimal policy when policymakers have an incentive to use unanticipated inflation to reduce the real value of nominal government liabilities. Three conclusions emerge: (1) nominal debt leads policymakers to resort to inflation even though, in equilibrium, inflation collects no revenue; (2) when under full precommitment the optimal policy calls for complete tax smoothing and a constant debt level, the equilibrium policy without precommitment calls for anticipating tax collection and early debt repayment; and (3) management of debt maturity is an essential component of the equilibrium policy. Copyright 1992 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] [' The authors develop and test the orthogonality conditions implied by a dynamic model of the inflation tax. A distinguishing feature of the analysis is that the welfare loss from inflation, the money-demand function, and the time path of inflation are jointly derived from first principles of government and private-sector intertemporal optimization. Quarterly data for Argentina, Brazil, and Israel are used in implementing the model. Although the overidentifying restrictions of the model are not rejected in most cases, there are several data points characterized by higher rates of inflation than the optimal rates under precommitment. Copyright 1992 by American Economic Association.'] ['The sterilization of capital inflows at the start of a price stabilization program may give rise to future pressures to discontinue the program as a result of the unduly high debt-service burden that the sterilization policy may generate.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The early stages of transformation of centrally planned economies into market economies are examined. In the transitional phase when an economy is no longer centrally planned, but not yet market based--when it is a "previously centrally planned economy"--expectations play a key role. A model is developed to analyze the consequences of expected price liberalization, and the benefits from early development of financial markets and speedy implementation of price reform are demonstrated. Ways to reduce liquidity overhang are examined, the consequences of privatization are analyzed, and the benefits of an effective tax system are highlighted.'] ['This paper focuses on the special role that capital markets play in the transformation of centrally planned economies into well-functioning market economies. We demonstrate that underdeveloped credit markets inhibit the effectiveness of price reform, monetary and credit policies, and trade liberalization. We explore various ways to overcome the difficulties associated with the underdeveloped credit markets. In this regard, we examine the implications of "cleaning" the balance sheets of enterprises and banks from nonperforming loans, as well as ways to enhance credibility. The paper concludes with a brief discussion of sequencing of economic reform measures.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['An important obstacle encountered in analyzing interest rate targeting is that standard models usually lead to indeterminacy of the price level or the inflation rate. This paper develops a simple framework that avoids such problems, because the bonds whose interest rate is controlled provide liquidity services. This framework is used to examine interest rate policy in a small open economy under predetermined exchange rates. A permanent increase in the interest rate has no real effects, whereas a temporary increase in the interest rate leads to higher consumption and a current account deficit that worsens over time.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["The role of debt maturity in managing the government's incentives to use opportunistic inflation to reduce the ex post real value of its nominal liabilities is explored. The maturity structure of government debt is shown to be a powerful instrument for affecting the time profile of the inflation tax base and, hence, for mitigating the distortions introduced by time inconsistency on taxation policies. The nature of the optimal policy is shown to be heavily dependent on the type of precommitment enjoyed by policymakers."] ['The possibility of reducing the real value of domestic nonindexed government debt through inflation is studied. A central result is that this kind of debt liquidation is possible even though prices are sticky and government bonds are short term. A policy implication is that short bond maturities are no safeguard against surprise devaluations intended to lower the burden of the debt. If devaluation incentives are present, nominal nonindexed bonds could give rise to situations in which devaluations are a consequence of self-fulfilling expectations cycles.'] [' The effect of a future anticipated devaluation is studied in the context of Sidrauski-type model without capital mobility. When the public is compensated for the real balance effect of the devaluation, the current account deteriorates and the interest rate increases before the devaluation occurs; when the devaluation takes place, the current account turns into surplus and the interest rate suffers a precipitous fall. If the public is not compensated, results are similar after the devaluation, but they may have the opposite sign in the transition. A full characterization is, however, provided. Linkages with policy credibility issues are briefly discussed. Copyright 1989 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] [' The author studies models in which debt repudiation, openly or through inflation, is possible. The government maximizes the utility of the representative individual, and the author focuses on n o-precommitment equilibria of the Barro-Gordon type. He shows cases i n which the existence of government bonds generate multiple perfect-f oresight equilibria. However, price indexation and/or interest-rate c eilings are shown to be possible solutions of the equilibrium multipl icity problem. Copyright 1988 by American Economic Association.'] ['The social costs of a temporary liberalization policy in the context of an economy with infinitely lived individuals and no intertemporal consumption substitution are studied. Importable goods, however, can be stored, and storability is the central source of distortions. Possible welfare costs of the induced inventory accumulation are shown to be significant. It is also argued that temporariness is formally equivalent to "lack of credibility." Because international capital mobility is the vehicle that magnifies these distortions, the results suggest that an optimal trade liberalization without full credibility could call for controls on international capital mobility.'] [' This paper analyzes aspects of optimal fiscal policy for economies with capital ac cumulation and finitely-lived, heterogeneous agents. For a particular utilitarian social welfare function, the problem faced by a central planner can be broken down into two subproblems: a standard problem o f optimally allocating aggregate consumption over time and a problem of distributing aggregate consumption optimally at each moment among those alive. If it can use a sufficiently rich set of lump-sum taxes and transfers, the government can replicate the command optimum as a market equilibrium outcome. No issue of government debt is needed to achieve this decentralization. Copyright 1988 by The Econometric Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The author shows that a flexible-prices, Sidrauski-type model with a cash-in-advance constraint is capable of depicting some of the phenomena associated with a balance of payments crisis, like the onesrecently observed in Argentina and Mexico (current-accounts deficits,and appreciation of the real exchange rat e). It is also shown that these phenomena become exacerbated as the rate of devaluation (before the crisis occurs) becomes smaller. Copyright 1987 by Ohio State University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We analyze a family of simple, but microeconomically grounded, models under the alternative assumptions of perfect capital mobility and immobility, and different degrees of private sector capitalization of reserves held by the Central Bank. We show that a'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']