 ['This paper discusses some of the challenges faced by a policy treatment of speculative trading that is motivated by differences in beliefs. The first challenge is philosophical. Suppose two investors prefer to speculate with each other, under the common knowledge that they are motivated to trade purely by a difference in beliefs (unconditional probability assessments). In the absence of third-party costs, are there conditions under which society should try to prevent them from doing so? The second challenge is the existence of a rationale for a policy based on beliefs, as distinct from other determinants of risk preferences. The third challenge is the ability of enforcement agencies to monitor the distinction between belief-motivated trade and trade motivated by more obvious welfare-enhancing activities, such as hedging, liquidity provision, or acquiring payoff-relevant information.'] ['We study equilibria of dynamic over-the-counter markets in which agents are distinguished by their preferences and information. Over time, agents are privately informed by bids and offers. Investors differ with respect to information quality, including initial information precision, and also in terms of market \xe2\x80\x9cconnectivity,\xe2\x80\x9d the expected frequency of their bilateral trading opportunities. We characterize endogenous information acquisition and show how learning externalities affect information gathering incentives. More \xe2\x80\x9cliquid\xe2\x80\x9d markets lead to higher equilibrium information acquisition when the gains from trade and market duration are sufficiently large. On the other hand, for a small market duration, the opposite may occur if agents vary sufficiently in terms of their market connectivity.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We introduce large-scale asset purchases (LSAPs) as a monetary policy tool within a macroeconomic model.We allow for purchases of both long-term government bonds and securities with some private risks. We argue that LSAPs should be thought of as central bank intermediation that can affect the economy to the extent there exist limits to arbitrage in private intermediation. We then build a model with limits to arbitrage in banking that vary countercyclically and where the frictions are greater for private securities than for government bonds. We use the framework to study the impact of LSAPs that have the broad features of the different quantitative easing (QE) programs the Federal Reserve pursued over the course of the crisis. We find that (i) LSAPs work in the model in a way mostly consistent with the evidence; (ii) purchases of securities with some private risk have stronger effects than purchases of government bonds; (iii) the effects of the LSAPs depend heavily on whether the zero lower bound is binding. Our model does not rely on the central bank having a more efficient intermediation technology than the private sector: We assume the opposite.'] ['This paper provides a mathematical foundation for independent random matching of a large population, as widely used in the economics literature. We consider both static and dynamic systems with random mutation, partial matching arising from search, and type changes induced by matching. Under independence assumptions at each randomization step, we show that there is an almost-sure constant cross-sectional distribution of types in a large population, and moreover that the multi-period cross-sectional distribution of types is deterministic and evolves according to the transition matrices of the type process of a given agent. We also show the existence of a joint agent-probability space, and randomized mutation, partial matching and match-induced type-changing functions that satisfy appropriate independence conditions, where the agent space is an extension of the classical Lebesgue unit interval.'] ['During the 2007-09 financial crisis, it became apparent that weaknesses existed in the design of the U.S. tri-party repo market that could rapidly elevate and propagate systemic risk. This article describes key mechanics of the market, focusing on two that have contributed to its weaknesses and impacted market reform efforts: the collateral allocation and \xe2\x80\x9cunwind\xe2\x80\x9d processes. The authors explain that collateral allocation in the tri-party repo market involves considerable dealer intervention, which can slow settlement processing. The length of time required to allocate collateral has in fact been a significant obstacle to market reform. Another impediment to reform is the unwind process, or the settlement of expiring and continuing repos that occurs before new ones can be settled and continuing ones can be \xe2\x80\x9crewound.\xe2\x80\x9d The intraday funding required as a result of the unwind process creates potentially perverse dynamics that increase market fragility and financial system risk. Indeed, a reengineering of the tri-party repo settlement process to be much less reliant on intraday credit is a main goal of current market reform. The authors argue that streamlining the collateral allocation process and eliminating the time gap associated with the unwind could minimize market risk and assist in the reform efforts.'] ['We present a model for the equilibrium movement of capital between asset markets that are distinguished only by the levels of capital invested in each. Investment in that market with the greatest amount of capital earns the lowest risk premium. Intermediaries optimally trade off the costs of intermediation against fees that depend on the gain they can offer to investors for moving their capital to the market with the higher mean return. Those fees also depend on the bargaining power of the investor, in light of potential alternative intermediaries. In equilibrium, the speeds of adjustment of mean returns and of capital between the two markets are increasing in the degree to which capital is imbalanced between the two markets.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' I describe asset price dynamics caused by the slow movement of investment capital to trading opportunities. The pattern of price responses to supply or demand shocks typically involves a sharp reaction to the shock and a subsequent and more extended reversal. The amplitude of the immediate price impact and the pattern of the subsequent recovery can reflect institutional impediments to immediate trade, such as search costs for trading counterparties or time to raise capital by intermediaries. I discuss special impediments to capital formation during the recent financial crisis that caused asset price distortions, which subsided afterward. After presenting examples of price reactions to supply shocks in normal market settings, I offer a simple illustrative model of price dynamics associated with slow-moving capital due to the presence of inattentive investors. Copyright (c) 2010 the American Finance Association.'] [' In these excerpts from "The Squam Lake Report", fifteen distinguished economists analyze where the global financial system failed, and how such failures might be prevented (or at least their damage better contained) in the future. Although there were many contributing factors to the crisis-including "agency" problems throughout the financial system and a bankruptcy code poorly suited for reorganizing financial firms-at the core of the problem is a potential conflict between the risk-taking proclivity of financial institutions and the interests of the economy at large that must be managed at least in part through more effective regulation. "The Squam Lake Report" provides a nonpartisan plan to transform the regulation of financial markets in ways designed to limit systemic risk while preserving-to the extent possible and prudent-the economies of scale and scope that justify the existence of today\'s large financial institutions. Copyright Copyright (c) 2010 Morgan Stanley.'] ['We study the "percolation" of information of common interest through a large market as agents encounter and reveal information to each other over time. We provide an explicit solution for the dynamics of the cross-sectional distribution of posterior beliefs. We also show that convergence of the cross-sectional distribution of beliefs to a common posterior is exponential and that the rate of convergence does not depend on the size of the groups of agents that meet. The rate of convergence is merely the mean rate at which an individual agent is matched. (JEL D83)'] ['I address whether speculation in credit default swaps is likely to have driven up Eurozone sovereign borrowing costs. I provide empirical evidence, based on research in progress with Zhipeng Zhang, that this is not the case. I also describe the role of speculators in credit default swap markets. I discuss how regulations that severely restrict speculation in credit default swap markets could have the unintended consequences of reducing market liquidity, raising trading execution costs for investors who are not speculating, and lowering the quality of information provided by credit default swap rates regarding the credit qualities of sovereign issuers. Regulations that severely restrict speculation in credit default swap markets could, as a result, increase sovereign borrowing costs. I briefl y suggest alternative regulatory approaches.'] ["We calculate learning rates when agents are informed through public and private observation of other agents' actions. We characterize the evolution of the distribution of posterior beliefs. If the private learning channel is present, convergence of the distribution of beliefs to the perfect-information limit is exponential at a rate equal to the sum of the mean arrival rate of public information and the mean rate at which individual agents are randomly matched with other agents. If, however, there is no private information sharing, then convergence is exponential at a rate strictly lower than the mean arrival rate of public information."] ['During the recent financial crisis, major dealer banks -- that is, banks that intermediate markets for securities and derivatives -- suffered from new forms of bank runs. The most vivid examples are the 2008 failures of Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers. Dealer banks are often parts of large complex financial organizations whose failures can damage the economy significantly. As a result, they are sometimes considered "too big to fail." The mechanics by which dealer banks can fail and the policies available to treat the systemic risk of their failures differ markedly from the case of conventional commercial bank runs. These failure mechanics are the focus of this article. This is not a review of the financial crisis of 2007-2009. Systemic risk is considered only in passing. Both the financial crisis and the systemic importance of large dealer banks are nevertheless obvious and important motivations.'] [' The probability of extreme default losses on portfolios of U.S. corporate debt is much greater than would be estimated under the standard assumption that default correlation arises only from exposure to observable risk factors. At the high confidence levels at which bank loan portfolio and collateralized debt obligation (CDO) default losses are typically measured for economic capital and rating purposes, conventionally based loss estimates are downward biased by a full order of magnitude on test portfolios. Our estimates are based on U.S. public nonfinancial firms between 1979 and 2004. We find strong evidence for the presence of common latent factors, even when controlling for observable factors that provide the most accurate available model of firm-by-firm default probabilities. Copyright (c) 2009 the American Finance Association.'] [' We solve for the equilibrium dynamics of information sharing in a large population. Each agent is endowed with signals regarding the likely outcome of a random variable of common concern. Individuals choose the effort with which they search for others from whom they can gather additional information. When two agents meet, they share their information. The information gathered is further shared at subsequent meetings, and so on. Equilibria exist in which agents search maximally until they acquire sufficient information precision and then search minimally. A tax whose proceeds are used to subsidize the costs of search improves information sharing and can, in some cases, increase welfare. On the other hand, endowing agents with public signals reduces information sharing and can, in some cases, decrease welfare. Copyright 2009 The Econometric Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We provide maximum likelihood estimators of term structures of conditional probabilities of corporate default, incorporating the dynamics of firm-specific and macroeconomic covariates. For U.S. Industrial firms, based on over 390,000 firm-months of data spanning 1979 to 2004, the level and shape of the estimated term structure of conditional future default probabilities depends on a firm?s distance to default (a volatility-adjusted measure of leverage), on the firm?s trailing stock return, on trailing S&amp; P 500 returns, and on U.S. interest rates, among other covariates. Variation in a firm?s distance to default has a substantially greater e ect on the term structure of future default hazard rates than does a comparatively significant change in any of the other covariates. Default intensities are estimated to be lower with higher short-term interest rates. The out-of-sample predictive performance of the model is an improvement over that of other available models.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' We test the doubly stochastic assumption under which firms\' default times are correlated only as implied by the correlation of factors determining their default intensities. Using data on U.S. corporations from 1979 to 2004, this assumption is violated in the presence of contagion or "frailty" (unobservable explanatory variables that are correlated across firms). Our tests do not depend on the time-series properties of default intensities. The data do not support the joint hypothesis of well-specified default intensities and the doubly stochastic assumption. We find some evidence of default clustering exceeding that implied by the doubly stochastic model with the given intensities. Copyright 2007 by The American Finance Association.'] [" We provide the impact on asset prices of search-and-bargaining frictions in over-the-counter markets. Under certain conditions, illiquidity discounts are higher when counterparties are harder to find, when sellers have less bargaining power, when the fraction of qualified owners is smaller, or when risk aversion, volatility, or hedging demand is larger. Supply shocks cause prices to jump, and then 'recover' over time, with a time signature that is exaggerated by search frictions: The price jump is larger and the recovery is slower in less liquid markets. We discuss a variety of empirical implications. , Oxford University Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" We study how intermediation and asset prices in over-the-counter markets are affected by illiquidity associated with search and bargaining. We compute explicitly the prices at which investors trade with each other, as well as marketmakers' bid and ask prices, in a dynamic model with strategic agents. Bid-ask spreads are lower if investors can more easily find other investors or have easier access to multiple marketmakers. With a monopolistic marketmaker, bid-ask spreads are higher if investors have easier access to the marketmaker. We characterize endogenous search and welfare, and discuss empirical implications. Copyright The Econometric Society 2005."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We introduce a family of generalized-method-of-moments estimators of the parameters of a continuous-time Markov process observed at random time intervals. The results include strong consistency, asymptotic normality, and a characterization of standard errors. Sampling is at an arrival intensity that is allowed to depend on the underlying Markov process and on the parameter vector to be estimated. We focus on financial applications, including tick-based sampling, allowing for jump diffusions, regime-switching diffusions, and reflected diffusions. Copyright The Econometric Society 2004.'] [' This paper provide a large-deviations approximation of the tail distribution of total financial losses on a portfolio consisting of many positions. Applications include the total default losses on a bank portfolio, or the total claims against an insurer. The results may be useful in allocating exposure limits, and in allocating risk capital across different lines of business. Assuming that, for a given total loss, the distress caused by the loss is larger if the loss occurs within a smaller time period, we provide a large-deviations estimate of the likelihood that there will exist a sub-period of the future planning period during which a total loss of the critical severity occurs. Under conditions, this calculation is reduced to the calculation of the likelihood of the same sized loss over an initial time interval whose length is a property of the portfolio and the critical loss level. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin/Heidelberg 2004'] [' We construct a model for pricing sovereign debt that accounts for the risks of both default and restructuring, and allows for compensation for illiquidity. Using a new and relatively efficient method, we estimate the model using Russian dollar-denominated bonds. We consider the determinants of the Russian yield spread, the yield differential across different Russian bonds, and the implications for market integration, relative liquidity, relative expected recovery rates, and implied expectations of different default scenarios. Copyright 2003 by the American Finance Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" We study the implications of imperfect information for term structures of credit spreads on corporate bonds. We suppose that bond investors cannot observe the issuer's assets directly, and receive instead only periodic and imperfect accounting reports. For a setting in which the assets of the firm are a geometric Brownian motion until informed equityholders optimally liquidate, we derive the conditional distribution of the assets, given accounting data and survivorship. Contrary to the perfect-information case, there exists a default-arrival intensity process. That intensity is calculated in terms of the conditional distribution of assets. Credit yield spreads are characterized in terms of accounting information. Generalizations are provided."] ['This paper provides an analytical approximation for computing value at risk and other risk measures for portfolios that may include options and other derivatives with defaultable counterparties or borrowers. The risk setting is that of a classical multi-factor jump-diffusion for default intensities and asset returns, under which between-jump returns are correlated Brownian motions, with return jumps at Poisson arrivals that are jointly normally distributed. This allows for fat-tailed and skewed return distributions.'] ["In the setting of affine' jump-diffusion state processes, this paper provides an analytical treatment of a class of transforms, including various Laplace and Fourier transforms as special cases, that allow an analytical treatment of a range of valuation and econometric problems. Example applications include fixed-income pricing models, with a role for intensityy-based models of default, as well as a wide range of option-pricing applications. An illustrative example examines the implications of stochastic volatility and jumps for option valuation. This example highlights the impact on option 'smirks' of the joint distribution of jumps in volatility and jumps in the underlying asset price, through both amplitude as well as jump timing.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ["The authors consider the problem of design and sale of a security backed by specified assets. Given access to higher-return investments, the issuer has an incentive to raise capital by securitizing part of these assets. At the time the security is issued, the issuer's or underwriter's private information regarding the payoff of the security may cause illiquidity in the form of a downward-sloping demand curve for the security. The authors characterize the optimal security design in several cases. They also demonstrate circumstances under which standard debt is optimal and show that the riskiness of the debt is increasing in the issuer's retention costs for assets."] [' This article presents convenient reduced-form models of the valuation of contingent claims subject to default risk, focusing on applications to the term structure of interest rates for corporate or sovereign bonds. Examples include the valuation of a credit-spread option. Article published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Financial Studies in its journal, The Review of Financial Studies.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This article develops a multi-factor econometric model of the term structure of interest-rate swap yields. The model accommodates the possibility of counterparty default, and any differences in the liquidities of the Treasury and Swap markets. By parameterizing a model of swap rates directly, the authors are able to compute model-based estimates of the defaultable zero-coupon bond rates implicit in the swap market without having to specify a priori the dependence of these rates on default hazard or recovery rates. The time series analysis of spreads between zero-coupon swap and treasury yields reveals that both credit and liquidity factors were important sources of variation in swap spreads over the past decade. Copyright 1997 by American Finance Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Empirical difficulties encountered by representative-consumer models are resolved in an economy with heterogeneity in the form of uninsurable, persistent, and heteroscedastic labor income shocks. Given the joint process of arbitrage-free labor prices, dividends, and aggregate income satisfying a certain joint restriction, it is shown that this process is supported in the equilibrium of an economy with judiciously modeled income heterogeneity. The Euler equations of consumption in a representative-agent economy are replaced by a set of Euler equations that depend not only on the per capita consumption growth but also on the cross-sectional variance of the individual consumers' consumption growth. Copyright 1996 by University of Chicago Press."] [' This paper presents a consistent and arbitrage-free multifactor model of the term structure of interest rates in which yields at selected fixed maturities follow a parametric muitivariate Markov diffusion process with "stochastic volatility." the yield of any zero-coupon bond is taken to be a maturity-dependent affine combination of the selected "basis" set of yields. We provide necessary and sufficient conditions on the stochastic model for this affine representation. We include numerical techniques for solving the model, as well as numerical techniques for calculating the prices of term-structure derivative prices. the case of jump diffusions is also considered. Copyright 1996 Blackwell Publishers.'] [" This article provides the causes and symptoms of special repo rates in a competitive market for repurchase agreements. A repo rate is, in effect, an interest rate on loans collateralized by a specific instrument. A 'special' is a repo rate significantly below prevailing market riskless interest rates. This article shows that specials can occur when those owning the collateral are inhibited, whether from legal or institutional requirements or from frictional costs, from supplying collateral into repurchase agreements. Specialness increases the equilibrium price for the underlying instrument by the present value of savings in borrowing costs associated with the repo specials. Copyright 1996 by American Finance Association."] ['In this paper we present a model of the term structure of interest rates with imperfect information and stochastic differential utility, a form of non-additive recursive utility. A principal feature of recursive utility, that distinguishes it from time-separable expected utility, is its dependence on the timing of resolution of uncertainty. In our model, we parametrize the non-linearity of recursive utility in a way that corresponds to preferences for the timing of resolution. This way we show explicitly the dependence of prices on the rate of information, as a consequence of the nature of utilities. State prices and the term structure of interest rates are obtained in closed form, and are shown to have a form in which derivative asset pricing is tractable. Comparative statics relating to the dependence of the term structure on the rate of information are also discussed.'] [' This article presents a model for valuing claims subject to default by both contracting parties, such as swaps and forwards. With counterparties of different default risk, the promised cash flows of a swap are discounted by a switching discount rate that, at any given state and time, is equal to the discount rate of the counterparty for whom the swap is currently out of the money (that is, a liability). The impact of credit-risk asymmetry and of netting is presented through both theory and numerical examples, which include interest rate and currency swaps. Copyright 1996 by American Finance Association.'] [' This article explores the information effect of financial risk management. Financial hedging improves the informativeness of corporate earnings as a signal of management ability and project quality by eliminating extraneous noise. Managerial and shareholder incentives regarding information transmission may differ, however, leading to conflicts regarding an optimal hedging policy. We show that these incentives depend on the accounting information made available by the firm. Under some circumstances, if hedge transactions are not disclosed (i.e., firms report only aggregate earnings), managers hedge to achieve greater risk reduction than they would if full disclosure were required. In these cases, it is optimal for shareholders to request only aggregate accounting reports. Article published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Financial Studies in its journal, The Review of Financial Studies.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Conditions are established under which there are equilibria (in various settings) described by ergodic Markov processes with a Borel state space S. Let [Rho](S) denote the probability measures on S, and let s [approaching] G(s) [is a subset of] [Rho](S) be a (possibly empty-valued) correspondence with closed graph. A non-empty measurable set J [is a subset of] S is self-justified if G(s) [intersects] [Rho](J) is not empty for all s [an element of] J. A Time-Homogeneous Markov Equilibrium (THME) for G is a self-justified set J and a measurable selection II: J [approaching] [Rho] (J) from the restriction of G to J. The paper gives sufficient conditions for existence of compact self-justified sets, and applies the theorem: If G is convex-valued and has a compact self-justified set, then G has an THME with an ergodic measure. Coauthors are J. Geanakoplos, A. Mas-Colell, and A. McLennan. Copyright 1994 by The Econometric Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper treats the problem of consumption and portfolio choice in continuous time, with stochastic income that cannot be replicated by trading the available securities. the optimal controls and value functions are characterized in terms of the viscosity solution of the associated Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation, which is shown to exist and is characterized. the optimal policy is then given from the first-order conditions of the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation. Copyright 1993 Blackwell Publishers.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper provides a simulated moments estimator of the parameters of dynamic models in which the state vector follows a time-homogeneous Markov process. Conditions are provided for both weak and strong consistency as well as asymptotic normality. Various trade-offs among the regularity conditions underlying the large sample properties of the simulated moments estimator are discussed in the context of an asset-pricing model. Geometric ergodicity of the underlying Markov process plays a central role in the analysis, ensuring that the simulated processes are asymptotically stationary with an ergodic distribution that is independent of starting values. Copyright 1993 by The Econometric Society.'] [' Asset pricing theory is presented with representative-agent utility given by a stochastic differential formulation of recursive utility. Asset returns are characterized from general first-order conditions of the Hamilton-Bellman-Jacobi equation for optimal control. Homothetic representative-agent recursive utility functions are shown to imply that excess expected rates of return on securities are given by a linear combination of the continuous-time market-portfolio-based capital asset pricing model (CAPM) and the consumption-based CAPM. The Cox, Ingersoll, and Ross characterization of the term structure is examined with a recursive generalization, showing the response of the term structure to variations in risk aversion. Also, a new multicommodity factor-return model, as well as an extension of the "usual" discounted expected value formula for asset prices, is introduced. Article published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Financial Studies in its journal, The Review of Financial Studies.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' A stochastic differential formulation of recursive utility is given sufficient conditions for existence, uniqueness, time consistency, monotonicity, continuity, risk aversion, concavity, and other properties. In the setting of Brownian information, recursive and intertemporal expected utility functions are observationally distinguishable. However, one cannot distinguish between a number of non-expected-utility theories of one-shot choice under uncertainty after they are suitably integrated into an intertemporal framework. In a "smooth" Markov setting, the stochastic differential utility model produces a generalization of the Hamilton-Bellman-Jacobi characterization of optimality. A companion paper explores the implications for asset prices. Copyright 1992 by The Econometric Society.'] [' Conditions suitable for applications in finance are given for the weak convergence (or convergence in probability) of stochastic integrals. For example, consider a sequence "S-super-n" of security price processes converging in distribution to "S" and a sequence \xce\xb8-super-n of trading strategies converging in distribution to "\xce\xb8". We survey conditions under which the financial gain process "\xce\xb8-super-n dS-super-n" converges in distribution to "\xce\xb8 dS." Examples include convergence from discrete- to continuous-time settings and, in particular, generalizations of the convergence of binomial option replication models to the Black-Scholes model. Counterexamples are also provided. Copyright 1992 Blackwell Publishers.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper provides conditions on the primitives of a continuous-time economy under which there exist equilibria obeying the consumption-based capital asset pricing model. The paper also extends the equilibrium characterization of interest rates of Cox, Ingersoll, and Ross (1985) to multiagent economies. No Markovian state assumption is used. Copyright 1989 by The Econometric Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']