 ['I present proofs for the consistency of generalized method of moments (GMM) estimators presented in Hansen (1982). Some basic approximation results provide the groundwork for the analysis of a class of such estimators. Using these results, I establish the large sample convergence of GMM estimators under alternative restrictions on the estimation problem.'] ['We develop methods for testing that an econometric model is underidentified and for estimating the nature of the failed identification. We adopt a generalized-method-of moments perspective in a possibly non-linear econometric specification. If, after attempting to replicate the structural relation, we find substantial evidence against the overidentifying restrictions of an augmented model, this is evidence against underidentification of the original model. To diagnose how identification might fail, we study the estimation of a one-dimensional curve that gives the parameter configurations that provide the greatest challenge to identification, and we illustrate this calculation in an empirical example.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We provide small noise expansions for the value function and decision rule for the recursive risk-sensitive preferences specified by Hansen and Sargent (1995), Hansen et al. (1999), and Tallarini (2000). We use the expansions (1) to provide a fast method for approximating solutions of dynamic stochastic problems and (2) to quantify the effects on decisions of uncertainty and concerns about robustness to misspecification.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['For each of three types of ambiguity, we compute a robust Ramsey plan and an associated worst-case probability model. Ex post, ambiguity of type I implies endogenously distorted homogeneous beliefs, while ambiguities of types II and III imply distorted heterogeneous beliefs. Martingales characterize alternative probability specifications and clarify distinctions among the three types of ambiguity. We use recursive formulations of Ramsey problems to impose local predictability of commitment multipliers directly. To reduce the dimension of the state in a recursive formulation, we transform the commitment multiplier to accommodate the heterogeneous beliefs that arise with ambiguity of types II and III. Our formulations facilitate comparisons of the consequences of these alternative types of ambiguity.'] ['We use statistical detection theory in a continuous-time environment to provide a new perspective on calibrating a concern about robustness or an aversion to ambiguity. A decision maker repeatedly confronts uncertainty about state transition dynamics and a prior distribution over unobserved states or parameters. Two continuous-time formulations are counterparts of two discrete-time recursive specifications of Hansen and Sargent (2007) [16]. One formulation shares features of the smooth ambiguity model of Klibanoff et al. (2005) and (2009) [24] and [25]. Here our statistical detection calculations guide how to adjust contributions to entropy coming from hidden states as we take a continuous-time limit.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["For linear quadratic Gaussian problems, this paper uses two risk-sensitivity operators defined by Hansen and Sargent (2007b) to construct decision rules that are robust to misspecifications of (1) transition dynamics for state variables and (2) a probability density over hidden states induced by Bayes' law. Duality of risk sensitivity to the multiplier version of min-max expected utility theory of Hansen and Sargent (2001) allows us to compute risk-sensitivity operators by solving two-player zero-sum games. Because the approximating model is a Gaussian probability density over sequences of signals and states, we can exploit a modified certainty equivalence principle to solve four games that differ in continuation value functions and discounting of time t increments to entropy. The different games express different dimensions of concerns about robustness. All four games give rise to time consistent worst-case distributions for observed signals. But in Games I-III, the minimizing players' worst-case densities over hidden states are time inconsistent, while Game IV is an LQG version of a game of Hansen and Sargent (2005) that builds in time consistency. We show how detection error probabilities can be used to calibrate the risk-sensitivity parameters that govern fear of model misspecification in hidden Markov models."] ['Nonlinearities in the drift and diffusion coefficients influence temporal dependence in diffusion models. We study this link using three measures of temporal dependence: [rho]-mixing, [beta]-mixing and [alpha]-mixing. Stationary diffusions that are [rho]-mixing have mixing coefficients that decay exponentially to zero. When they fail to be [rho]-mixing, they are still [beta]-mixing and [alpha]-mixing; but coefficient decay is slower than exponential. For such processes we find transformations of the Markov states that have finite variances but infinite spectral densities at frequency zero. The resulting spectral densities behave like those of stochastic processes with long memory. Finally we show how state dependent, Poisson sampling alters the temporal dependence.'] [' We create an analytical structure that reveals the long-run risk-return relationship for nonlinear continuous-time Markov environments. We do so by studying an eigenvalue problem associated with a positive eigenfunction for a conveniently chosen family of valuation operators. The members of this family are indexed by the elapsed time between payoff and valuation dates, and they are necessarily related via a mathematical structure called a semigroup. We represent the semigroup using a positive process with three components: an exponential term constructed from the eigenvalue, a martingale, and a transient eigenfunction term. The eigenvalue encodes the risk adjustment, the martingale alters the probability measure to capture long-run approximation, and the eigenfunction gives the long-run dependence on the Markov state. We discuss sufficient conditions for the existence and uniqueness of the relevant eigenvalue and eigenfunction. By showing how changes in the stochastic growth components of cash flows induce changes in the corresponding eigenvalues and eigenfunctions, we reveal a long-run risk-return trade-off. Copyright 2009 The Econometric Society.'] ["Reinterpreting most of the market price of risk as a price of model uncertainty eradicates a link between asset prices and measures of the welfare costs of aggregate fluctuations that was proposed by Hansen, Sargent, and Tallarini [17], Tallarini [30], Alvarez and Jermann [1]. Prices of model uncertainty contain information about the benefits of removing model uncertainty, not the consumption fluctuations that Lucas [22] and [23] studied. A max-min expected utility theory lets us reinterpret Tallarini's risk-aversion parameter as measuring a representative consumer's doubts about the model specification. We use model detection instead of risk-aversion experiments to calibrate that parameter. Plausible values of detection error probabilities give prices of model uncertainty that approach the Hansen and Jagannathan [11] bounds. Fixed detection error probabilities give rise to virtually identical asset prices as well as virtually identical costs of model uncertainty for Tallarini's two models of consumption growth."] [' We characterize and measure a long-term risk-return trade-off for the valuation of cash flows exposed to fluctuations in macroeconomic growth. This trade-off features risk prices of cash flows that are realized far into the future but continue to be reflected in asset values. We apply this analysis to claims on aggregate cash flows and to cash flows from value and growth portfolios by imputing values to the long-run dynamic responses of cash flows to macroeconomic shocks. We explore the sensitivity of our results to features of the economic valuation model and of the model cash flow dynamics. (c) 2008 by The University of Chicago. All rights reserved..'] [" We study how a concern for robustness modifies a policymaker's incentive to experiment. A policymaker has a prior over two submodels of inflation-unemployment dynamics. One submodel implies an exploitable trade-off, the other does not. Bayes' law gives the policymaker an incentive to experiment. The policymaker fears that both submodels and his prior probability distribution over them are misspecified. We compute decision rules that are robust to misspecifications of each submodel and of the prior distribution over submodels. We compare robust rules to ones that Cogley, Colacito, and Sargent (2007) computed assuming that the models and the prior distribution are correctly specified. We explain how the policymaker's desires to protect against misspecifications of the submodels, on the one hand, and misspecifications of the prior over them, on the other, have different effects on the decision rule. Copyright (c) 2008 The Ohio State University."] ["In a Markov decision problem with hidden state variables, a posterior distribution serves as a state variable and Bayes' law under an approximating model gives its law of motion. A decision maker expresses fear that his model is misspecified by surrounding it with a set of alternatives that are nearby when measured by their expected log likelihood ratios (entropies). Martingales represent alternative models. A decision maker constructs a sequence of robust decision rules by pretending that a sequence of minimizing players choose increments to a martingale and distortions to the prior over the hidden state. A risk sensitivity operator induces robustness to perturbations of the approximating model conditioned on the hidden state. Another risk sensitivity operator induces robustness to the prior distribution over the hidden state. We use these operators to extend the approach of Hansen and Sargent (1995) to problems that contain hidden states. The worst case martingale is overdetermined, expressing an intertemporal inconsistency of worst case beliefs about the hidden state, but not about observables.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Simon\xe2\x80\x99s and Theil\xe2\x80\x99s certainty equivalence property justifies a convenient algorithm for solving dynamic programming problems with quadratic objectives and linear transition laws: first, optimize under perfect foresight, then substitute optimal forecasts for unknown future values. A similar decomposition into separate optimization and forecasting steps prevails when a decision maker wants a decision rule that is robust to model misspecification. Concerns about model misspecification leave the first step of the algorithm intact and affect only the second step of forecasting the future. The decision maker attains robustness by making forecasts with a distorted model that twists probabilities relative to his approximating model. The appropriate twisting emerges from a two-player zero-sum dynamic game.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" A representative agent fears that his model, a continuous time Markov process with jump and diffusion components, is misspecified and therefore uses robust control theory to make decisions. Under the decision maker's approximating model, cautious behavior puts adjustments for model misspecification into market prices for risk factors. We use a statistical theory of detection to quantify how much model misspecification the decision maker should fear, given his historical data record. A semigroup is a collection of objects connected by something like the law of iterated expectations. The law of iterated expectations defines the semigroup for a Markov process, while similar laws define other semigroups. Related semigroups describe (1) an approximating model; (2) a model misspecification adjustment to the continuation value in the decision maker's Bellman equation; (3) asset prices; and (4) the behavior of the model detection statistics that we use to calibrate how much robustness the decision maker prefers. Semigroups 2, 3, and 4 establish a tight link between the market price of uncertainty and a bound on the error in statistically discriminating between an approximating and a worst case model. (JEL: C00, D51, D81, E1, G12) Copyright (c) 2003 The European Economic Association."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" We study how decision-makers' concerns about robustness affect prices and quantities in a stochastic growth model. In the model economy, growth rates in technology are altered by infrequent large shocks and continuous small shocks. An investor observes movements in the technology level but cannot perfectly distinguish their sources. Instead the investor solves a signal extraction problem. We depart from most of the macroeconomics and finance literature by presuming that the investor treats the specification of technology evolution as an approximation. To promote a decision rule that is robust to model misspecification, an investor acts as if a malevolent player threatens to perturb the actual data-generating process relative to his approximating model. We study how a concern about robustness alters asset prices. We show that the dynamic evolution of the risk-return trade-off is dominated by movements in the growth-state probabilities and that the evolution of the dividend-price ratio is driven primarily by the capital-technology ratio. Copyright 2002, Oxford University Press."] ['We explore methods for confronting model misspecification in macroeconomics. We construct dynamic equilibria in which private agents and policy makers recognize that models are approximations. We explore two generalizations of rational expectations equilibria. In one of these equilibria, decision makers use dynamic evolution equations that are imperfect statistical approximations, and in the other misspecification is impossible to detect even from infinite samples of time-series data. In the first of these equilibria, decision rules are tailored to be robust to the allowable statistical discrepancies. Using frequency domain methods, we show that robust decision makers treat model misspecification like time-series econometricians.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We explore methods for confronting model misspecification in macroeconomics. We construct dynamic equilibria in which private agents and policy makers recognize that models are approximations. We explore two generalizations of reational expectations equilibria. In one of these equilibria, decision-makers use dynamic evolution equations that are imperfect statistical approximations, and in the other misspecification is impossible to detect even from infinite samples of time series data. In the first of these equilibria, decision rules are tailored to be robust to the allowable statistical discrepancies. Using frequency domain methods, we show that robust decision-makers treat model misspecification like time series econometricians.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" In this article, the authors develop alternative ways to compare asset pricing models when it is understood that their implied stochastic discount factors do not price all portfolios correctly. Unlike comparisons based on chi square statistics associated with null hypotheses that models are correct, the authors' measures of model performance do not reward variability of discount factor proxies. One of their measures is designed to exploit fully the implications of arbitrage-free pricing of derivative claims. The authors demonstrate empirically the usefulness of their methods in assessing some alternative stochastic factor models that have been proposed in asset pricing literature. Copyright 1997 by American Finance Association."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The authors investigate the small sample properties of three alternative generalized method of moments estimators of asset pricing models. The estimators that they consider include ones in which the weighting matrix is iterated to convergence and ones in which the weighting matrix is changed with each choice of the parameters. Particular attention is devoted to assessing the performance of the asymptotic theory for making inferences based directly on the deterioration of GMM criterion functions.'] [" This paper studies alternative methods for estimating parameters from multiperiod conditional moment restrictions. The authors' discussion is couched in the context of a multivariate linear time series model and they use the log-linear intertemporal asset pricing model as a prototype when comparing alternative econometric methods. They propose a generalized method of moments estimator that is scale invariant and is asymptotically equivalent to one used previously in empirical work on asset pricing. The authors then show how to improve the efficiency of this estimator. Finally, they apply these methods in an empirical investigation of the log-linear intertemporal asset pricing model."] ['Interest in simulating recently developed dynamic stochastic general equilibrium models of the economy stimulated a demand for parameters. This has given rise to calibration as advocated by Finn E. Kydland and Edward C. Prescott (1982). This paper explores the implicit assumptions underlying their calibration method. The authors question that there is a ready supply of micro estimates available to calibrate macroeconomic models. Measures of parameter uncertainty and specification sensitivity should be routinely reported. They propose a more symbiotic role for calibration as providing signals to microeconomists about important gaps in knowledge, which when filled will solidify the empirical underpinning, improving the credibility of the quantitative output.'] [' In this article we provide econometric tools for the evaluation of intertemporal asset pricing models using specification-error and volatility bounds. We formulate analog estimators of these bounds, give conditions for consistency, and derive the limiting distribution of these estimators. The analysis incorporates market frictions such as short-sale constraints and proportional transactions costs. Among several applications we show how to use the methods to assess specific asset pricing models and to provide nonparametric characterizations of asset pricing anomalies. Article published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Financial Studies in its journal, The Review of Financial Studies.'] [' Continuous-time Markov processes can be characterized conveniently by their infinitesimal generators. For such processes there exist forward and reverse-time generators. The authors show how to use these generators to construct moment conditions implied by stationary Markov processes. Generalized method of moments estimators and tests can be constructed using these moment conditions. The resulting econometric methods are designed to be applied to discrete-time data obtained by sampling continuous-time Markov processes. Copyright 1995 by The Econometric Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper describes a class of dynamic stochastic linear quadratic equilibrium models. A model is specified by naming lists of matrices that determine preferences, technology, and the information structure. Aggregate equilibrium allocations and prices are computed by solving a social planning problem in the form of an optimal linear regulator. Heterogeneity among agents is permitted. Several examples are computed.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' The authors show how to use security market data to restrict the admissible region for means and standard deviations of intertemporal marginal rates of substitution of consumers. Their approach (1) is nonparametric and applies to a rich class of models of dynamic economics; (2) characterizes the duality between the mean-standard deviation frontier for intertemporal marginal rates of substitution and the familiar mean-standard deviation frontier for asset returns; and (3) exploits the restriction that intertemporal marginal rates of substitution are positive random variables. The region provides a convenient summary of the sense in which asset market data are anomalous from the vantage point of intertemporal asset pricing theory. Copyright 1991 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["In conducting empirical investigations of the permanent income model of consumption and the consumption-based intertemporal asset pricing model, various authors have imposed restrictions on the nature of the substitutability of consumption across goods and over time. In this paper we suggest a method for testing some of these restrictions and present empirical results using this approach. Our empirical analyses focuses on three questions: (i) Can the services from durable and nondurable goods be treated as perfect substitutes? (ii) Are preferences completely separable between durable and nondurable goods? (iii) What is the nature of intertemporal substitutability of nondurable consumption? When consumers' preferences are assumed to be quadratic, there is very little evidence against the hypothesis that the services from durable goods and nondurable goods are perfect substitutes. These results call into question the practice of testing quadratic models of aggregate consumption using data on nondurables and services only. When we consider S branch specifications, we find more evidence against perfect substitutability between service flows, but less evidence against strict separability across durable and nondurable consumption goods. Among other things, these findings suggest that the empirical shortcomings of the intertemporal asset pricing model cannot be attributed to the neglect of durable goods.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' This paper investigates empirically a model of aggregate consumption and leisure decisions in which utility from goods and leisure is nontime-separable. The nonseparability of p refer-ences accommodates intertemporal substitution or complementarit y of leisure and thereby affects the comovements in aggregate compens ation and hours worked. These cross relations are examined empiricall y using postwar monthly U.S. data on quantities, real wages, and the real return on the one-month treasury bill. The estimated values of t he parameters governing preferences differ significantly from the val ues assumed in several studies of real business models. Several possi ble explanations of these discrepancies are discussed. Copyright 1988, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [' The purpose of this paper is to investigate testable implications of equilibrium asset pricing models. The authors derive a general representation for asset prices that displays the role of conditioning information. This representation is then used to examine restrictions implied by asset pricing models on the unconditional moments of asset payoffs and prices. In particular, they analyze the effect of information omission on the mean-variance frontier of one- period returns on portfolios of securities. Also, the authors deduce an information extension of equilibrium pricing functions that is useful in deriving restrictions on the unconditional moments of payoffs and prices. Copyright 1987 by The Econometric Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper describes the continuous time stochastic process for money and inflation under which Cagan\xe2\x80\x99s adaptive expectations model is optimal. It then analyzes how data formed by sampling money and prices at discrete points in time would behave.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper reconsiders the aliasing problem of identifying the parameters of a continuous time stochastic process from discrete time data. It analyzes the extent to which restricting attention to processes with rational spectral density matrices reduces the number of observationally equivalent models. It focuses on rational specifications of spectral density matrices since rational parameterizations are commonly employed in the analysis of the time series data.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['A prediction formula for geometrically declining sums of future forcing variables is derived for models in which the forcing variables are generated by a vector autoregressive-moving average process. This formula is useful in deducing and characterizing cross-equation restrictions implied by linear rational expectations models.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['A prediction formula for geometrically declining sums of future forcing variables is derived for models in which the forcing variables are generated by a vector autoregressive-moving average process. This formula is useful in deducing and characterizing cross-equation restrictions implied by linear rational expectations models.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['This paper describes methods for conveniently formulating and estimating dynamic linear econometric models under the hypothesis of rational expectations. An econometrically convenient formula for the cross-equation rational expectations restrictions is derived. Models of error terms and the role of the concept of Granger causality in formulating rational expectations models are both discussed. Tests of hypothesis of strict econometric exogeneity along the lines of Sim\xe2\x80\x99s are compared with a test that is related to Wu\xe2\x80\x99s.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']