 ['This paper studies the dynamics of labor demand at the plant level to quantify labor adjustment costs. At the plant level, in contrast to time-series observations, the correlation of hours and employment growth is negative while hours and employment growth are about equally volatile. We specify and estimate the parameters of a plant-level dynamic optimization problem using simulated method of moments to match these plant-level observations. Our findings indicate that non-convex adjustment costs are critical for explaining plant-level observations on hours and employment adjustment.'] [' Casual observation suggests that in most U.S. urban labor markets, immigrants have more immigrant coworkers than native-born workers do. While seeming obvious, this excess tendency to work together has not been precisely measured, nor have its sources been quantified. Using matched employer\xe2\x80\x93employee data from the U.S. Census Bureau Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics (LEHD) database on a set of metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs) with substantial immigrant populations, we find that, on average, 37 % of an immigrant\xe2\x80\x99s coworkers are themselves immigrants; in contrast, only 14 % of a native-born worker\xe2\x80\x99s coworkers are immigrants. We decompose this difference into the probability of working with compatriots versus with immigrants from other source countries. Using human capital, employer, and location characteristics, we narrow the mechanisms that might explain immigrant concentration. We find that industry, language, and residential segregation collectively explain almost all the excess tendency to work with immigrants from other source countries, but they have limited power to explain work with compatriots. This large unexplained compatriot component suggests an important role for unmeasured country-specific factors, such as social networks. Copyright Population Association of America 2014'] ['Somewhat surprisingly, cross-country empirical evidence (at least in the cross section) does not seem to support the predictions of standard models that economies with stricter regulations on hiring and firing should have a lower pace of job reallocation. One problem in exploring these issues empirically has been the difficulty of comparing countries on the basis of harmonized measures of job reallocation. A related problem is that there may be unobserved measurement errors or other factors accounting for differences in job reallocation across countries. This paper overcomes these challenges by using harmonized measures of job creation and destruction in a sample of 16 industrial and emerging economies, exploiting the country, industry and firm size dimensions. The analysis of variance in the paper shows that firm size effects are a dominant factor in accounting for the variation in the pace of job reallocation across country, industry and size cells. However, even after controlling for industry and size effects there remain significant differences in job flows across countries that could reflect differences in labor market regulations. We use the harmonized data to explore this hypothesis with a difference-in-difference approach. We find strong and robust evidence that stringent hiring and firing regulations tend to reduce the pace of job reallocation.'] ['Private equity critics claim that leveraged buyouts bring huge job losses and few gains in operating performance. To evaluate these claims, we construct and analyze a new dataset that covers US buyouts from 1980 to 2005. We track 3,200 target firms and their 150,000 establishments before and after acquisition, comparing to controls defined by industry, size, age, and prior growth. Buyouts lead to modest net job losses but large increases in gross job creation and destruction. Buyouts also bring TFP gains at target firms, mainly through accelerated exit of less productive establishments and greater entry of highly productive ones. (JEL D24, G24, G32, G34, J23, J63, L25)'] ['An optimal pace of business dynamics\xe2\x80\x94encompassing the processes of entry, exit, expansion, and contraction\xe2\x80\x94would balance the benefits of productivity and economic growth against the costs to firms and workers associated with reallocation of productive resources. It is difficult to prescribe what the optimal pace should be, but evidence accumulating from multiple datasets and methodologies suggests that the rate of business startups and the pace of employment dynamism in the US economy has fallen over recent decades and that this downward trend accelerated after 2000. A critical factor in accounting for the decline in business dynamics is a lower rate of business startups and the related decreasing role of dynamic young businesses in the economy. For example, the share of US employment accounted for by young firms has declined by almost 30 percent over the last 30 years. These trends suggest that incentives for entrepreneurs to start new firms in the United States have diminished over time. We do not identify all the factors underlying these trends in this paper but offer some clues based on the empirical patterns for specific sectors and geographic regions.'] ['We examine the link between trade liberalization and aggregate productivity, with a focus on improved market selection resulting from a reduction in trade barriers and in the dispersion of these barriers across producers. Our analysis exploits tariff changes across sectors after the Colombian trade reform. An additional advantage of our analysis is that our TFP measure does not include demand and price effects. We find that reduced trade protection makes plant survival depend more closely on productivity. Using a dynamic simulation, we find that enhanced selection increases aggregate productivity substantially. Trade liberalization also increases productivity of incumbent plants and improves the allocation of activity. We find larger effects on allocative efficiency with our TFP measure than with a traditional measure including price effects. (Copyright: Elsevier)'] [" The view that small businesses create the most jobs remains appealing to policymakers and small business advocates. Using data from the Census Bureau's Business Dynamics Statistics and Longitudinal Business Database, we explore the many issues at the core of this ongoing debate. We find that the relationship between firm size and employment growth is sensitive to these issues. However, our main finding is that once we control for firm age, there is no systematic relationship between firm size and growth. Our findings highlight the important role of business start-ups and young businesses in U.S. job creation. Copyright: No rights reserved. This work was authored as part of the Contributor's official duties as an Employee of the United States Government and is therefore a work of the United States Government. In accordance with 17 U.S.C. 105, no copyright protection is available for such works under U.S. law."] ['Using a large data set that links individual Current Population Survey (CPS) records to employer-reported administrative data, we document substantial discrepancies in basic measures of employment status that persist even after controlling for known definitional differences between the two data sources. We hypothesize that reporting discrepancies should be most prevalent for marginal workers and for marginal or nonstandard jobs, and we find systematic associations between the incidence of reporting discrepancies and observable person and job characteristics that are consistent with this hypothesis. The paper discusses the implications of the reported findings for both micro and macro labor market analysis.'] [' This paper is the first to study vacancies, hires, and vacancy yields at the establishment level in the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey, a large sample of US employers. To interpret the data, we develop a simple model that identifies the flow of new vacancies and the job-filling rate for vacant positions. The fill rate moves counter to aggregate employment but rises steeply with employer growth rates in the cross section. It falls with employer size, rises with worker turnover rates, and varies by a factor of four across major industry groups. We also develop evidence that the employer-level hiring technology exhibits mild increasing returns in vacancies, and that employers rely heavily on other instruments, in addition to vacancies, as they vary hires. Building from our evidence and a generalized matching function, we construct a new index of recruiting intensity (per vacancy). Recruiting intensity partly explains the recent breakdown in the standard matching function, delivers a better-fitting empirical Beveridge curve, and accounts for a large share of fluctuations in aggregate hires. Our evidence and analysis provide useful inputs for assessing, developing, and calibrating theoretical models of search, matching, and hiring in the labor market. JEL Codes: D21, E24, J60. Copyright 2013, Oxford University Press.'] [" We measure unit value electricity prices using 2 million annual observations on U.S. manufacturing plants from 1963 to 2000. These prices display tremendous cross-sectional dispersion, 85\xe2\x80\x9395% of which reflects differences by plant location and purchase quantity. Spatial differentials decline markedly until the late 1980s for large purchasers but rise over time for small purchasers. Unit value price gaps between larger and smaller purchasers are enormous, diminish through the late 1970s, and then stabilize at still-high levels. There are major differences across states in cost and regulatory factors that we relate to the changing structure of unit value prices. No rights reserved. This work was authored as part of the Contributor's official duties as an Employee of the United States Government and is therefore a work of the United States Government. In accordance with 17 U.S.C. 105, no copyright protection is available for such works under U.S. law"] ['There remains considerable debate in the theoretical and empirical literature about the differences in the cyclical dynamics of firms by firm size. This paper contributes to the debate in two ways. First, the key distinction between firm size and firm age is introduced. The evidence presented in this paper shows that young businesses (that are typically small) exhibit very different cyclical dynamics than small/older businesses. The second contribution is to present evidence and explore explanations for the finding that young/small businesses were hit especially hard in the Great Recession. The collapse in housing prices accounts for a significant part of the large decline of young/small businesses in the Great Recession.'] ['This paper investigates the effect of idiosyncratic (firm-level) policy distortions on aggregate outcomes. Exploiting harmonized firm\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x80\x98level data for a number of countries, we show that there is substantial and systematic cross\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x80\x98country variation in the within-industry covariance between size and productivity. We develop a model in which heterogeneous firms face adjustment frictions (overhead labor and quasi-fixed capital) and distortions. The model can be readily calibrated so that variations in the distribution of distortions allow matching the observed cross-country moments. We show that the differences in the distortions that account for the size-productivity covariance imply substantial differences in aggregate performance. (JEL D24, L25, O47)'] ['Executive SummaryBusiness dynamism plays an important role in job creation and productivity growth in the United States. Business start-ups are an important contributor to that dynamism. Start-ups contribute disproportionately to job creation but are very heterogeneous in terms of productivity. The subsequent \xe2\x80\x9cup-or-out\xe2\x80\x9d dynamic of young businesses is an important source of job and productivity growth: exiting young businesses are of very low productivity, and the surviving young businesses exhibit rapid growth with above average productivity. The United States shows signs of becoming less dynamic over time\xe2\x80\x94exhibiting a slower pace of reallocation with an accompanying slower pace of job creation from business start-ups. The recent recession saw the lowest overall rate of gross job creation and job creation from start-ups since at least 1980. Job creation for small (young) businesses took an especially large hit in the recession and has been very slow to recover. An open question is whether the observed decline in dynamism exhibited by U.S. businesses will have adverse consequences for U.S. innovation, job, and productivity growth in the future.The fundamental impulse that keeps the capital engine in motion comes from the new consumers\xe2\x80\x99 goods, the new methods of production and transportation, the new markets\xe2\x80\xa6. [The process] incessantly revolutionizes from within, incessantly destroying the old one, incessantly creating a new one. This process of Creative Destruction is the essential fact of capitalism.Joseph Schumpeter'] [' We measure job-filling rates and recruiting intensity per vacancy at the national and industry levels from January 2001 to September 2011 using data from the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey. Industry-level movements in these variables are at odds with implications of the standard matching function in labor search theory but consistent with a generalized function that incorporates an important role for recruiting intensity. Construction makes up less than five percent of employment but accounts for more than 40 percent of the large swings in the job-filling rate during and after the Great Recession.'] ['Many theoretical models of labor market search imply a tight link between worker flows (hires and separations) and job gains and losses at the employer level. We use rich establishment-level data to assess several theoretical models and to study the relationship between worker flows and jobs flows. Hires, quits, and layoffs exhibit strong, highly nonlinear relationships to employer growth rates in the cross section. Simple statistical models of these relationships greatly improve our ability to account for fluctuations in aggregate worker flows and enable us to construct synthetic measures of hires, separations, quits, and layoffs back to 1990.'] [' We use administrative data linking workers and firms to study employer-to-employer (E-to-E) flows. After discussing how to identify such flows in quarterly data, we investigate their basic empirical patterns. We find that the pace of E-to-E flows is high, representing approximately 4% of employment and 30% of separations each quarter. The pace of E-to-E flows appears to be highly procyclical and varies systematically across worker, job, and employer characteristics. There are rich patterns in terms of origin and destination of industries. Somewhat surprisingly, we find that more than half of the workers making E-to-E transitions switch even broadly defined industries (i.e., NAICS supersectors).<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['In this note we document how constraints in the business environment, as perceived by individual firms, differ both across countries and within each country, across firms. This finding is of key importance given recent theoretical models that suggest idiosyncratic distortions can have large aggregate effects. Not only do such distortions affect the behaviour of incumbent firms, but they also impinge on the selection of firms that enter the market or leave it. Empirical research should attempt to link idiosyncratic components of the business climate to firm selection and to distortions in the allocation of factors inputs across firms and, through these channels, to aggregate economic performance.'] ["In part due to the popular perception that Big-Boxes displace smaller, often family owned (a.k.a. Mom-and-Pop) retail establishments, several empirical studies have examined the evidence on how Big-Boxes' impact local retail employment but no clear consensus has emerged. To help shed light on this debate, we exploit establishment-level data with detailed location information from a single metropolitan area to quantify the impact of Big-Box store entry and growth on nearby single unit and local chain stores. We incorporate a rich set of controls for local retail market conditions as well as whether or not the Big-Boxes are in the same sector as the smaller stores. We find a substantial negative impact of Big-Box entry and growth on the employment growth at both single unit and especially smaller chain stores - but only when the Big-Box activity is both in the immediate area and in the same detailed industry."] [' We analyze nonlinear adjustments of capital and labor using plant data from the Colombian Annual Manufacturing Survey, allowing for interdependence in adjustments of the two factors. We find nonlinear employment and capital adjustments. We also find that capital shortages reduce hiring, and labor surpluses reduce capital shedding. Moreover, we find that job destruction and capital formation increased after factor market deregulation in Colombia. Finally, we find that completely eliminating frictions in factor adjustment would yield a substantial increase in aggregate productivity through improved allocative efficiency, but that the actual impact of the Colombian deregulation on productivity was modest. \xc2\xa9 2010 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [" Innovative firms need to hire and motivate highly talented workers. This article connects the potential returns to innovation to the structure of compensation for skilled employees. We show that the software firms that operate in software sectors with high potential upside gains to innovation pay more to 'star' workers than do other firms that operate in stable markets. Firms operating in product domains with highly skewed positive returns pay employees more in up-front starting salaries and offer higher compensation growth. The large estimated effects on earnings are robust to the inclusion of a wide range of controls for worker and firm characteristics. Copyright \xef\xbf\xbd The Author(s). Journal compilation \xef\xbf\xbd Royal Economic Society 2009."] ["We investigate the nature of selection and productivity growth in industries where we observe producer-level quantities and prices separately. We show there are important differences between revenue and physical productivity. Because physical productivity is inversely correlated with price while revenue productivity is positively correlated with price, previous work linking (revenue- based) productivity to survival confounded the separate and opposing effects of technical efficiency and demand on survival, understating the true impacts of both. Further, we find that young producers charge lower prices than incumbents. Thus the literature understates new producers' productivity advantages and entry's contribution to aggregate productivity growth. (JEL D24, L11, L25)"] ['Unemployment inflows fell from 4 percent of employment per month in the early 1980s to 2 percent or less by the mid 1990s and thereafter. U.S. data also show a secular decline in firm-level employment volatility and the job destruction rate. We interpret this decline as a decrease in the intensity of idiosyncratic labor demand shocks, a key parameter in search and matching models of frictional unemployment. According to these models, a lower intensity of idiosyncratic demand shocks produces less job destruction, fewer workers flowing through the unemployment pool and less frictional unemployment. To evaluate this theoretical mechanism, we relate industry-level unemployment flows from 1977 to 2005 to industry-level indicators for the intensity of idiosyncratic shocks. Unlike previous research, we focus on the lower frequency relationship of job destruction and business volatility to unemployment flows. We find strong evidence that declines in the intensity of idiosyncratic labor demand shocks drove large declines in the incidence of unemployment.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper exploits a new matched universal and longitudinal employer-employee database at the US Census Bureau to empirically investigate the link between firms' choice of worker mix and the implied relationships between productivity and wages. We particularly focus on the decision making process of new firms and examine the role of both learning and selection. Our key empirical results are: (i) We find substantial and persistent differences in earnings per worker, output per worker, and worker mix across businesses within narrowly defined industries, which remain even after controlling for other observable characteristics. (ii) We find that new businesses exhibit even greater heterogeneity in earnings and productivity than do mature businesses, but that they adjust to the mature business pattern as they age. The adjustment process, while different for earnings and productivity, is consistent both with firms learning as they age and with the exit of mistake' prone firms. (iii) The dynamics of the reduction in productivity heterogeneity of new firms as they age is both complex and very different from the dynamic reduction of earnings heterogeneity.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper studies the nature of capital adjustment at the plant level. We use an indirect inference procedure to estimate the structural parameters of a rich specification of capital adjustment costs. In effect, the parameters are optimally chosen to reproduce a set of moments that capture the non-linear relationship between investment and profitability found in plant-level data. Our findings indicate that a model, which mixes both convex and non-convex adjustment costs, fits the data best. Copyright 2006, Wiley-Blackwell.'] ['In a healthy economy, plant turnover increases aggregate productivity because efficient producers are more likely to survive. Given high entry and exit rates and the potential importance of turnover in accounting for aggregate productivity, in this paper we examine the determinants of plant exits and then examine how exits and other forms of output reallocation contribute to aggregate productivity. Using a unique plant-level longitudinal data set for Colombia for the period 1982-98, we examine the role of productivity and demand as well as input costs in determining plant exits. Moreover, given the important structural reforms introduced in Colombia during the early 1990s, we explore whether and how plant survival changed after these reforms. Our data permit measurement of plant-level quantities and prices, which allows us to decompose productivity and demand shocks and, in turn, to estimate the effects of these fundamentals on plant exit. We find that higher productivity, higher demand, and lower input prices decrease the probability of plant exit. We also find that the importance of physical efficiency and costs in determining exits increases after the introduction of structural reforms. Finally, a decomposition of aggregate productivity suggests that reallocation through entry and exit is important in accounting for the increase in aggregate productivity after the introduction of structural reforms. Copyright 2006, International Monetary Fund'] ['New data sources and products developed by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and the Bureau of the Census highlight the fluid character of U.S. labor markets. Private sector job creation and destruction rates average nearly 8 percent of employment per quarter. Worker flows in the form of hires and separations are more than twice as large. The data also underscores the lumpy nature of micro-level employment adjustments. More than two-thirds of job destruction occurs at establishments that shrink by more than 10 percent within the quarter, and more than one-fifth occurs at those that shut down. Our study also uncovers highly nonlinear relationships of worker flows to employment growth and job flows at the micro level. These micro relations interact with movements over time in the cross-sectional density of establishment growth rates to produce recurring cyclical patterns in aggregate labor market flows. Cyclical movements in the layoffs-separations ratio, for example, and the propensity of separated workers to become unemployed reflect distinct micro relations for quits and layoffs. A dominant role for the job-finding rate in accounting for unemployment movements in mild downturns and a bigger role for the job-loss rate in severe downturns reflect distinct micro relations for hires and layoffs.'] [' The U.S. retail trade sector underwent a massive restructuring and reallocation of activity in the 1990s with accompanying technological advances. Using a data set of establishments in that sector, we quantify and explore the relationship between this restructuring and reallocation and labor productivity dynamics. We find that virtually all of the labor productivity growth in the retail trade sector is accounted for by more productive entering establishments displacing much less productive exiting establishments. The productivity gap between low-productivity exiting single-unit establishments and entering high-productivity establishments from large, national chains plays a disproportionate role in these dynamics. Copyright by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] ["Estimates for the U.S. suggest that at least in some sectors productivity enhancing reallocation is the dominant factor in accounting for productivity growth . An open question, particularly relevant for developing countries, is whether reallocation is always productivity enhancing. It may be that imperfect competition or other barriers to competitive environments imply that the reallocation process is not fully efficient in these countries. Using a unique plant-level longitudinal dataset for Colombia for the period 1982-1998, we explore these issues by examining the interaction between market allocation, productivity, and profitability. Moreover, given the important trade, labor and financial market reforms in Colombia during the early 1990's, we explore whether and how the contribution of reallocation changed over the period of study. Our data permit measurement of plant-level quantities and prices. Taking advantage of the rich structure of our price data, we propose a sequential methodology to estimate productivity and demand shocks at the plant level. First, we estimate total factor productivity (TFP) with plant-level physical output data, where we use downstream demand to instrument inputs. We then turn to estimating demand shocks and mark-ups with plant-level price data, using TFP to instrument for output in the inverse demand equation. We examine the evolution of the distributions of TFP and demand shocks in response to the market reforms in the 1990's. We find that market reforms are associated with rising overall productivity that is largely driven by reallocation away from low- and towards high-productivity businesses. In addition, we find that the allocation of activity across businesses is less driven by demand factors after reforms. We find that the increase in aggregate productivity post-reform is entirely accounted for by the improved allocation of activity.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' Openness to international competition can lead to enhanced resource allocation in the end. While factor reallocation is essential if net benefits are to be derived from trade liberalization, the process generates costs both for transitioning workers and for employers undergoing personnel turnover. Net welfare gains depend on adjustment costs. Understanding of these issues has been hampered by data limitations. In this paper, we overcome some of these limitations by using new, harmonized measures on job creation and destruction for a number of countries in Latin America. We use these new series to investigate the impact of the removal of protectionism on net employment and gross job reallocation in Latin America. We find a robust pattern showing that reductions in tariffs and exchange rate appreciations increase the pace of job reallocation within sectors. We also find, however, some evidence of declining net employment growth as trade exposure increases. For example, we find some evidence that in the wake of tariff reductions, there is lower net employment growth.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Using establishment-level data, we shed light on the sources of the changes in the structure of production, wages, and employment that have occurred over recent decades. Our findings are: (1) the between-plant component of wage dispersion is an important and growing part of total wage dispersion; (2) much of the between-plant increase in wage dispersion is within industries; (3) the between-plant measures of wage and productivity dispersion have increased substantially over recent decades; and (4) a significant fraction of the rising dispersion in wages and productivity is accounted for by changes in the distribution of computer investment across plants.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Like many transition economies, Slovenia is undergoing profound changes in the workings of the labour market with potentially greater flexibility in terms of both wage and employment adjustment. To investigate the impact of these changes, we use unique longitudinal matched employer-employee data that permits measurement of employment transitions and wages for workers and enables links of the workers to the firms in which they are employed. We can thus measure worker flows and job flows in a comprehensive and integrated manner. We find a high pace of job flows in Slovenia especially for young, small, private and foreign-owned firms and for young, less educated workers. While job flows have approached the rates observed in developed market economies, the excess of worker flows above job flows is lower than that observed in market economies. A key factor in the patterns of the worker and job flows is the determination of wages in Slovenia. A base wage schedule provides strict guidelines for minimum wages for different skill categories. However, firms are permitted to offer higher wages to an individual based upon the success of the worker and/or the firm. Our analysis shows that firms deviate from the base wage schedule significantly and that the idiosyncratic wage policies of firms are closely related to the observed pattern of worker and job flows at the firm. Firms with more flexible wages (measured as less compression of wages within the firm) have less employment instability and are also able to improve the match quality of their workers. Copyright (c)The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 2003.'] ['With the transition in Estonia, worker flows increased greatly, driven by an increase in job flows. As the situation stabilized, the job and worker flows converged at rates similar to those observed in Western economies. In 1989, job reallocation accounted for only a small fraction of overall worker reallocation, which was less than 15 percent. By 1993, the worker reallocation rate exceeded 35 percent, more than two-thirds of it attributable to job reallocation. The dramatic increase in job flows was the result of increased separations, as jobs were eliminated. In 1992, early in the transition, the situation looked ominous but in only a couple of years new jobs and hires surged as well. By 1994, the hiring rate exceeded the separation rate, and jobs were being created faster thanthey were being eliminated. Increased job and worker reallocations did not affect all sectors or types of employee the same way. More jobs were eliminated in large state manufacturing firms and more jobs were created by smaller, private service, and trade-oriented employers. Virtually all of the new jobs came from the private sector (although many jobs were eliminated there, too). The elimination of so many jobs accounted for about half the increase in direct job-to-job transitions (from less than 5 percent in 1989 to 15 percent in 1994). Opening product and labor markets in Estonia led to a remarkable surge in worker and job flows. Early in the transition so many jobs were eliminated that things looked ominous, but within a couple years small private firms led the surge in new jobs and hiring.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We study the effects of oil price changes and other shocks on the creation and destruction of U.S. manufacturing jobs from 1972 to 1988. We find that oil shocks account for about 20-25 percent of the cyclical variability in employment growth under our identifying assumptions, twice as much as monetary shocks. Employment growth shows a sharply asymmetric response to oil price ups and downs, in contrast to the prediction of standard equilibrium business cycle models. The two-year employment response to an oil price increase rises (in magnitude) with capital intensity, energy intensity, and product durability. Job destruction shows much greater short-run sensitivity to oil and monetary shocks than job creation in every sector with the clear exception of young, small plants. Oil shocks also generate important reallocative effects. For example, we estimate that job reallocation rose by 11 percent of employment over 3-4 years in response to the 1973 oil shock. More than 80 percent of this response reflects greater job reallocation activity within manufacturing.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' A longstanding issue in empirical economics is the behavior of average labor productivity over the business cycle. This paper provides new insights into the cyclicality of aggregate labor productivity by examining the cyclical behavior of productivity at the plant level as well as the role of reallocation across plants over the cycle. We find that plant-level productivity is even more procyclical than aggregate productivity, because short-run reallocation yields a countercyclical contribution to labor productivity. At the plant level, we find that cyclicality of productivity varies systematically with long-run employment growth. Over the course of the cycle, plants that are long-run downsizers exhibit significantly greater procyclicality of productivity than do long-run upsizers. When we control for the direction of a cyclical shock, we find that the fall in productivity from an adverse cyclical shock for long-run downsizers is significantly larger in magnitude than is the fall in productivity from an equivalent adverse cyclical shock for long-run upsizers. We argue that these findings raise questions about one of the most popular explanations of procyclical productivity: changing factor utilization over the cycle. \xc2\xa9 2001 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['A remarkable feature of the current U.S. economic expansion has been its ability to shrug off the adverse effects of financial crises and economic slowdowns around the world for nearly two years. Recently, however, foreign-sector developments have triggered a sizable shift in the sectoral composition of U.S. employment. By early 1999, employment growth in the goods-producing sector was still humming along. Historically, substantial shifts in labor demand between sectors have been correlated with the business cycle. But recent developments are unusual and highlight our incomplete understanding of this correlation. This article provides new data and evidence on the connection between shifts in labor demand, or job reallocation, and the business cycle. The authors find that all meaningful measures of job reallocation between plants and between industries are significantly countercyclical. They also find econometric evidence that job reallocation may be an important determinant of the natural rate of unemployment, and that dispersion in relative prices may be an important determinant of reallocation'] ["This paper explores investment fluctuations due to discrete changes in a plant's capital stock. The resulting aggregate investment dynamics are surprisingly rich, reflecting the interaction between a replacement cycle, the cross-sectional distribution of the age of the capital stock, and an aggregate shock. Using plant-level data, lumpy investment is procyclical and more likely for older capital. Further, the predicted path of aggregate investment that neglects vintage effects tracks actual aggregate investment reasonably well. However, ignoring fluctuations in the cross-sectional distribution of investment vintages can yield predictable nontrivial errors in forecasting changes in aggregate investment."] ['Theory restricts short-run job creation and destruction responses and cumulative employment and job reallocation responses to allocative and aggregate shocks. We formulate these restrictions and implement them for postwar data on U.S. manufacturing. Allocative shocks are the main driving force behind cyclical movements in job reallocation, but their contribution to employment fluctuations varies greatly across alternative identification assumptions. Also, the data compel one or both of the following inferences: aggregate shocks greatly alter the shape and not just the mean of the cross-sectional density of employment growth rates; allocative shocks cause short-run reductions in aggregate employment.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This article reports the results from a survey of public sector employment retrenchment episodes across a wide variety of developing and transition economies. The information collected and analyzed is primarily from internal World Bank documents and in-depth interviews with World Bank staff having operational information about experiences in specific countries. Using the information collected on 41 retrenchment programs across 37 countries, the article analyzes the relationships between the factors leading to retrenchment, the scope and nature of retrenchment, and the methods used to accomplish the retrenchment. The discussion of methods includes an analysis of the mix of involuntary and voluntary employment reduction programs, the compensation schemes offered, and the extent of targeting of specific types of workers. Although relevant quantitative information is limited, the article also attempts to evaluate the outcome of the programs on several dimensions. The most striking findings relate to analysis of the factors leading a significant fraction of programs to rehire workers separated from the public sector (thereby defeating the programs' objective). In addition, the article relates program characteristics to calculated summary financial payback indicators and to the nature of the labor market adjustment. Copyright 1999 by Oxford University Press."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' In recent years a growing number of countries have constructed data series on job creation and job destruction using establishment-level data sets. This paper provides a description and detailed comparison of these new data series for the United States and Canada. First, the Canadian and U.S. industry-level job creation and destruction data are remarkably similar. Industries with high (low) job creation in the United States are evidenced by high (low) job creation in Canada. The same is true for job destruction. In addition, the overall magnitudes of gross job flows in the two countries are comparable. Second, the time-series patterns of creation and destruction are qualitatively similar but do differ in a number of important respects. In both countries, job destruction is much more cyclically volatile than job creation. This cyclical asymmetry is, however, more pronounced in the United States. In addition, the pace of job reallocation exhibits a pronounced upward trend in Canada but is essentially trendless in the United States. \xc2\xa9 1998 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] [" This paper studies quarterly employment flows of approximately 10,000 U.S. manufacturing establishments. The authors use establishments' hours-week to construct measures of the deviation between desired and actual employment and use these as the establishments' main state variables. The main findings are: (1) microeconomic adjustment functions are nonlinear, with plants adjusting disproportionately to large shortages; (2) adjustments are often either large or nil, suggesting the presence of nonconvexities in the adjustment cost technologies; (3) the bulk of average employment fluctuations is accounted for by aggregate, rather than reallocation, shocks; and (4) microeconomic nonlinearities amplify the impact of large aggregate shocks. Copyright 1997 by American Economic Association."] ['In this paper, we exploit plant-level data for U.S. manufacturing for the 1970s and 1980s to explore the connections between changes in technology and the structure of employment and wages. We focus on the nonproduction labor share (measured alternatively by employment and wages) as the variable of interest. Our main findings are summarized as follows: (i) aggregate changes in the nonproduction labor share at annual and longer frequencies are dominated by within plant changes; (ii) the distribution of annual within plant changes exhibits a spike at zero, tremendous heterogeneity and fat left and right tails; (iii) within plant secular changes are concentrated in recessions; and (iv) while observable indicators of changes in technology account for a significant fraction of the secular increase in the average nonproduction labor share, unobservable factors account for most of the secular increase, most of the cyclical variation and most of the cross sectional heterogeneity.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The conventional wisdom is that the rising productivity in the U.S. manufacturing sector in the 1980s has been driven by the apparently pervasive downsizing over this period. Aggregate evidence clearly shows falling employment accompanying the rise in productivity. In this paper, we examine the microeconomic evidence using the plant level data from the Longitudinal Research Database (LRD). In contrast to the conventional wisdom, we find that plants that increased employment as well as productivity contribute almost as much to overall productivity growth in the 1980s as the plants that increased productivity at the expense of employment. Further, there are striking differences by sector (defined by industry, size, region, wages, and ownership type) in the allocation of plants in terms of whether they upsize or downsize and whether they increase or decrease productivity. Nevertheless, in spite of the striking differences across sectors defined in a variety of ways, most of the variance of productivity and employment growth is accounted for by idiosyncratic factors.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper investigates how job creation and destruction behavior varies by employer size in the U.S. manufacturing sector during the period 1972 to 1988. The paper also evaluates the empirical basis for conventional claims about the job-creating prowess of small businesses. The chief findings and conclusions fall into five categories: (1) Conventional wisdom about the job-creating prowess of small business rests on misleading interpretations of the data. (2) Many previous studies of the job creation process rely upon data that are not suitable for drawing inferences about the relationship between employer size and job creation. (3) Large plants and firms account for most newly-created and newly-destroyed manufacturing jobs. (4) Survival rates for new and existing manufacturing jobs increase sharply with employer size. Smaller manufacturing firms and plants exhibit sharply higher gross rates of job creation but not higher net rates. Copyright 1996 by Kluwer Academic Publishers'] ['This paper examines the evolution of the wage structure in France after 1984. Our data come from two matched employer-employee wage surveys performed in 1986 and 1992. So, we have two cross-sections of establishments and individuals. A subsample of establishments present in both surveys allows us to analyse time-variations. We find that the wage inequality increased between 1986 and 1992, which seems to be, in large part, explained by the evolution of employer-specific compensation policies. We analyse the role of employer characteristics in this evolution. We also show that between-plant specialization dramatically increased during the period in all dimensions. Finally, we observe that the evolutions of employer-specific wage policies are correlated with changes of the workforce in terms of experience and seniority.'] ['We study how the hourly wage structure varies with establishment size and how wage dispersion breaks down into between-plant and within-plant components. Our study combines household and establishment data for the U.S. manufacturing sector in 1982. 1. Wage dispersion falls sharply with establishment size for nonproduction workers and mildly for production workers. 2. Size-class differences in wage dispersion often mask even sharper differences in the dispersion of wages generated by observable worker characteristics and in the "skill prices" on those characteristics. 3. In terms of dispersion in predicted log wages, \xe2\x80\xa2 worker heterogeneity tends to rise with establishment size; \xe2\x80\xa2 production workers are much more homogeneous in the union sector, but only at plants with 1,000 or more workers. 4. Unobserved factors generate sharply greater wage dispersion at smaller establishments. 5. The variance in mean wages across establishments accounts for 59% of total variance. Within-plant wage variance among production workers accounts for a mere 2%. 6. Mean wage differences by size of establishment account for about one-fourth of the total between-plant variance of wages. 7. Between-plant wage dispersion falls sharply with establishment size, entirely accounting for the negative relationship of establishment size to overall wage dispersion. Guide by these and other empirical findings, we assess several hypotheses about the determination of the wage structure.'] [' This paper provides empirical evidence on macroeconomic complementarities, a restriction on the nature of interaction between individuals in a multiagent setting. These models imply that activities across agents will be positively correlated, that discrete decisions will be synchronized, and that disturbances will be magnified and propagated. The paper shows that these implications are consistent with aggregate observations as well as some microeconomic evidence. Further, looking at certain historical episodes, such as the National Industrial Recovery Act, as well as seasonal fluctuations provides additional support for models with macroeconomic complementarities. Copyright 1996 by MIT Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We analyze the implications for the dynamics of capital accumulation of market power and endogenous demand elasticities, in an environment in which the latter are affected by the number of competitors in each industry. In equilibrium the interest rate increases as capital accumulates, even though the marginal product of capital is constant. Under standard assumptions two steady states and a balanced growth path exist, and the possibility of multiple equilibrium paths (for given initial conditions) arises. The latter feature is argued to match several empirical observations.'] ["This paper studies the role of macroeconomic complementarities, defined as interactions between individuals in a multiagents setting. These models imply that agents'decisions are positively correlated, that decisions are synchronized and that shocks are magnified and propagated. This paper shows that these results can be found in aggregate data or in some microeconomic examples. Moreover, some historical episodes, as the National Industrial Recovery Act period, and the study of seasonnal fluctuations are in favour of these models with macroeconomic complementariries."] [' The objectives of this review are threefold: (1) to characterize the empirical literature on the cyclical behavior of real wages; (2) to identify the sources of the differences in results across studies; and (3) to enumerate key factors that determine the cyclicality of real wages. Given a host of measurement and methodological issues, drawing firm conclusions is difficult, but several generalizations can be made. The estimated cyclicality of real wages depends crucially on the time period of analysis and the choice of whether to examine the production or the consumption wage. Composition effects play an important but complicated role as well.'] ['In this paper, a two-period macroeconomic model, in which output is demand determined, is constructed. In the first period firms may borrow to finance investment, which reduces their marginal costs in the second period; however, since default by borrowers is possible there is an incentive compatibility constraint which may or may not bind. If it binds, there is endogenous credit rationing. Three regimes are possible; in Regime I there is no investment; in Regime II there is positive investment without the ICC holding, whereas in the third the condition binds and there is credit rationing. The behaviour of the economy in each of these regimes, and the circumstances under which each of these regimes obtains, are analyzed and some conclusions drawn. The possibility that the model possesses multiple equilibria is considered.'] [" This paper investigates the automobile industry code negotiated in 1933 and modified in 1935 under the National Industrial Recovery Act. The amended code contained a provision calling for automobile producers to alter the timing of new model introductions and the annual automobile show as a means of regularizing employment in the industry. The authors' analysis of this period provides evidence against the hypothesis that changes in fundamentals led to the dramatic changes in the seasonal pattern of production and sales starting in 1935. Instead, it appears that the National Industrial Recovery Act succeeded in coordinating activity on an alternative Nash equilibrium. Copyright 1993, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."] [' The authors study an economy in which producers incur resource costs to replace depreciated machines. The process of costly replacement and depreciation creates endogenous fluctuations in productivity, employment, and output of a single producer. The authors explore the spillover effects of machine replacement on other sectors of the economy and provide conditions for synchronized machine replacement by multiple independent producers. The implications of their model are generally consistent with observed monthly output, employment, and productivity fluctuations in automobile plants. Synchronization of retooling across plants within the auto industry is widespread, so that the fluctuations observed at the plant level have aggregate implications. Copyright 1993 by American Economic Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This study measures the heterogeneity of establishment-level employment changes in the U.S. manufacturing sector over the 1972 to 1986 period. The authors measure this heterogeneity in terms of the gross creation and destruction of jobs and the rate at which mobs are reallocated across plants. Their measurement efforts enable them to quantify the connection between job reallocation and worker reallocation, to evaluate theories of heterogeneity in plant-level employment dynamics, and to establish new results related to the cyclical behavior of the labor market. Copyright 1992, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [" Recent work by Rotemberg and Saloner (1986) investigates the effect of the business cycle on optimal collusive pricing by specifying that demand is subject to i.i.d. shocks. An implication of the i.i.d. assumption is that firms' expectations on future demand are unrelated to the current level of demand. We put forth a model that allows for both the level of current demand and firms' expectations on future demand to change over time; thus it captures two important properties of the business cycle. Our analysis reveals that while the gain to deviating from a collusive agreement is greatest during booms, firms find it most difficult to collude during recessions, as the forgone profits from inducing a price war are relatively low. An implication of this effect for pricing behavior is that at the same level of demand, price is lower when demand is declining than when demand is rising. Consistent with previous theoretical work, we find that firms price countercyclically for a range of values for the discount factor. However, numerical simulations reveal a greater tendency for firms to price countercyclically during recessions than during booms."] [' This paper considers the implications of a particular type of heterogeneity--one which characterizes a large number of economic environments, but that has not received any systematic treatment in the literature. The authors refer to this heterogeneity as responders versus nonresponders. The paper begins by providing a general framework for the analysis of environments characterized by this heterogeneity and then shows how this framework can be used to help understand a wide variety of economic environments. Particular applications considered are, near rationality, network externalities, and models of reputation. Copyright 1991 by Royal Economic Society.'] [' This paper contrasts the dynamic properties of an imperfectly competitive economy with a representative agent, real business cycle model. For both economies, inventories are the important dynamic linkage. The predictions of these models with regards to the comovement of employment across sectors may differ. Empirical evidence on the comovement of employment over the business cycle is consistent with the model of imperfect competition with inventory holdings. Copyright 1990 by American Economic Association.'] [' This paper considers the implications of heterogeneity in information-processing abilities for macroeconomic models that exhibit "strategic complements." The latter is the same concept that has received much attention in the recent macro literature under the headings "Keynesian coordination problems" and "positive trading externalities." The authors consider environments in which agents vary in terms of their ability to form expectations, and ask whether it is the "sophisticated" agents or the "naive" agents who have a disproportionately large effect on macroeconomic equilibrium. They find that if macroeconomic interaction exhibits strategic complementarity, then it is the naive agents who have a disproportionate impact. Copyright 1989, the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'] [' This paper investigates the relationship between the way rational expectations is employed in practice and the argument initially put forth to justify its use. In practice, rational expectations has meant that the expectations of each agent taken separately is consistent with the predictions of the theory. This is different than the argument frequently used by proponents of rational expectations that, on an aggregate level, expectations should be consistent with the theory. The primary findings are that standard and aggregate rational expectations typically yield systematically different equilibria and that the size of the difference depends positively on the degree of synergism. Copyright 1989 by Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper develops a model of firm behavior under uncertainty designed to study the interac tion of inventories and layoffs. The model is a blend of a buffer sto ck model of inventory behavior and an implicit contract model of layo ffs. The model creates a distinction between inventory-biased and lay off-biased firms, each of which exhibits inherently different pattern s of response of inventories and temporary layoffs to demand shocks. In addition, the model implies that the inventory-layoff interaction tends to strengthen (weaken) the response of price and the work force to changes in anticipated demand (real interest rates). Copyright 1988 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' In recent years a large literature has developed that investigates the role of insurance in labor market contracting. Papers in this literature typically assume that workers are completely restricted from borrowing. The authors argue, and to some extent demonstrate, that in many environments capital market imperfections do not lead to a no-borrowing result, rather to a capital market assumption intermediate between the no-borrowing assumption and the perfect capital market assumptions. The authors consider some of the ramifications that this intermediate capital market assumption has on the type of insurance firms provide through the labor market contract. Copyright 1986 by University of Chicago Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper develops a model of unemployment rate dynamics that provides an explanation of persistent cyclical unemployment that does not involve persistent expectational errors or other nonoptimizing behavior. Our results are based on the interaction of search dynamics and inventory adjustments. An important element in these dynamics appears to be heterogeneity in the labor force which can be characterized as consisting of a relatively small group of high turnover individuals who comprise the bulk of normal unemployment and a larger group of low turnover individuals who dominate movements in cyclical unemployment. Our empirical results provide support for this theory as we demonstrate that the appropriately measured probability of becoming employed during a recovery falls relative to normal because of the unusually high proportion of low turnover individuals who have lost "permanent" jobs. As aresult, recovery is much slower than is indicated by normal relationships although each individual is searching optimally.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']