 [' The physical image of transport systems, as perceived by users and non users, has long been put forward as a powerful influence on the formation of preferences. One setting for this is in the choice between bus rapid transit (BRT) and light rail transit (LRT) where there appears to be a strong preference in favour of LRT in developed countries and the reverse in developing countries. Using data collected in six capital cities in Australia in 2013, in which individuals rated two BRT and two LRT designs presented as physical images, we develop a full rank mixed logit model to identify candidate sources of influence on image preferences. These provide signals to assist in preparing the ground for a segmented profile for policy makers and politicians to understand how to underpin building a rational debate for modal options in our cities. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['A key feature of many regulatory reviews is determination of the amount of expenditure that should be reflected in the revenue requirement for a service provider. An increasingly important driver in determining the appropriate level of this expenditure is the desired level of service quality and requisite service targets which are incorporated in the \xe2\x80\x98regulatory bargain\xe2\x80\x99. Willingness to pay (WTP) evidence can be used in the regulatory bargain to establish such targets. In this paper we study households\xe2\x80\x99 WTP to avoid specific restrictions on service supply quality (especially reliability) in residential electricity, using stated choice experiments to reveal the set of preferences required to calculate WTP. Using a sample of residents in Canberra, Australia, we find that residential customers value reliability of the electricity service; in particular, frequency and the duration of outages are important to customers, and customers value incurring fewer and shorter outages, compared to more frequent and longer outages. The average WTP to avoid a common set of events such as outages, power surges and flickers in electric current vary from $60 per customer per event for an 8-h electricity outage when it occurs once a year through to $9 per event for a flicker in electric current.'] ['Both research and international experience have shown that, whilst BRT services allow suburban areas to be provided with a reasonable level of transit access at an acceptable cost, Heavy Rail offers higher perceived benefits to communities even where BRT performs the same or better in terms of travel time, fares or subsidy levels. There is strong support for the extension of Heavy Rail into the North West Area of Sydney, despite an extensive network of frequent and fast bus services operating along three busways and providing single seat service between low density residential areas, regional centres and the CBD of Sydney. This has led to a number of proposals since 1998 for the North West Rail Link that is now under construction and will replace most direct bus routes with rail feeder services. Previous research demonstrated that the project would have ambiguous benefits for existing public transport users in terms of frequency, travel time and fares. This paper examines the various iterations of the project to explore whether the succession of proposals has led to a project that will provide a better or worse level of service, in terms of travel time, than either the initial proposals or the existing network of services.'] ['In recent years we have seen a burgeoning literature, within a discrete choice modelling setting, focussing on capturing increased behavioural realism in decision making through the use of alternative specifications of the utility function. One notable example is the increasing popularity of the random regret minimisation (RRM) model, in which respondents are assumed to choose the alternative that minimises the negative emotions associated with decision making.'] [' This paper investigates the factors that influence the choice of, and hence demand for taxis services, a relatively neglected mode in the urban travel task. Given the importance of positioning preferences for taxi services within the broader set of modal options, we develop a modal choice model for all available modes of transport for trips undertaken by individuals or groups of individuals in a number of market segments. A sample of recent trips in Melbourne in 2012 was used to develop segment-specific mode choice models to obtain direct (and cross) elasticities of interest for cost and service level attributes. Given the nonlinear functional form of the way attributes of interest are included in the modal choice models, a simple set of mean elasticity estimates are not behaviourally meaningful; hence a decision support system is developed to enable the calculation of mean elasticity estimates under specific future service and pricing levels. Some specific direct elasticity estimates are provided as the basis of illustrating the magnitudes of elasticity estimates under likely policy settings. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014'] [' The call for a congestion charge is getting louder and more frequent in many countries as major metropolitan areas experience increasing levels of road congestion. This is often accompanied by a recognition that governments need to find new sources of revenue to maintain existing road networks and to invest in new transport infrastructure. Although reform of road pricing is almost certain to occur at some time in the future in a number of countries, a key challenge is in selling the idea to the community of road users as well as a whole raft of interest groups that influence the views of society and politicians. Simply announcing a need for a congestion charge (often misleadingly called a tax) does little to progress the reform agenda. What is required is a carefully structured demonstration of what might be done to progressively introduce adjustments in road user charges that are seen as reducing the costs to motorists while ensuring no loss of revenue to government. In this paper we show, in the context of Sydney (Australia), that this can be achieved by the reform of registration fees in the presence of a distance-based charging regime that can deliver financial gains to motorists, with prospects of revenue growth to the State Treasury. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014'] ['In this paper we extend the independent availability logit and combined latent class mixed logit models to accommodate respondents with different consideration sets due to their cost thresholds and cut-offs. Pertinent features of our model are that it is estimated in WTP-space and that the class-specific WTP distributions are truncated to be within the bounds deduced from the cost level(s) within each class-specific consideration set. Our analysis shows that our approach is well suited at uncovering the heterogeneity in the cost thresholds and cut-offs used by respondents. This is shown to help build a richer insight into respondent\xd7\xb3s behaviour as well as raise a number of concerns about the appropriateness of assuming deterministic choice sets. We discuss the implications of our results for welfare analysis.'] [' A number of studies have shown that in addition to travel time and cost as the common influences on mode, route and departure time choices, travel time variability plays an increasingly important role, especially in the presence of traffic congestion on roads and crowding on public transport. The dominant focus of modelling and implementation of optimal pricing that incorporates trip time variability has been in the context of road pricing for cars. The main objective of this paper is to introduce a non-trivial extension to the existing literature on optimal pricing in a multimodal setting, building in the role of travel time variability as a source of disutility for car and bus users. We estimate the effect of variability in travel time and bus headway on optimal prices (i.e., tolls for cars and fares for buses) and optimal bus capacity (i.e., frequencies and size) accounting for crowding on buses, under a social welfare maximisation framework. Travel time variability is included by adopting the well-known mean\xe2\x80\x93variance model, using an empirical relationship between the mean and standard deviation of travel times. We illustrate our model with an application to a highly congested corridor with cars, buses and walking as travel alternatives in Sydney, Australia. There are three main findings that have immediate policy implications: (i) including travel time variability results in higher optimal car tolls and substantial increases in toll revenue, while optimal bus fares remain almost unchanged; (ii) when bus headways are variable, the inclusion of travel time variability as a source of disutility for users yields higher optimal bus frequencies; and (iii) including both travel time variability and crowding discomfort leads to higher optimal bus sizes. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014'] ['With the aim to improve efficiency and value for money, in addition to tendered services the European Commission approach to rail organisation allows substantial open access rail services in both passenger and freight operations. This paper investigates, from a transaction cost perspective, whether the European approach is applicable to the Australian context, and more generally to all regions and types of operation. A key focus of this paper is on vertically integrated railways owned by mining companies who are increasingly encouraged to provide open access to their competitors. In addition to the policy perspective, our discussion also includes the views of senior rail managers.'] ['Discrete choice (DC) models are often used to describe consumer behaviour at a disaggregate level. At this level, a choice decision is defined in terms of a set of alternatives representing different \xe2\x80\x98varieties\xe2\x80\x99 of a particular product differentiated mainly by their quality attributes rather than just prices. Individuals making these choice decisions are also differentiated by their socio-economic characteristics rather than just income level. DC models therefore are rich in details which are relevant for policies at a microeconomic and intra-sectoral level. In contrast, continuous demand (CD) models are specialized in describing aggregate behaviour at an inter-sectoral level. DC and CD models are therefore complements rather than substitutes and increasingly, there is a need to combine the use of both types of models to look at activities at a microeconomic and intra-sectoral level but at the same time measuring the impacts of these activities at a macroeconomic and economy-wide level. Using both of these types of models within a single framework (such as that of a spatial general equilibrium model) requires solutions to some theoretical and empirical issues because the two types of models are based on different theoretical approaches and also use different types of data. This paper looks at these issues and presents a way of overcoming the differences and combines the specialisations of both types of models in a coherent and consistent manner. The paper also presents an empirical study to illustrate the usefulness of the methodology suggested.'] ['The greatest hurdle facing road pricing reform is political commitment. With rare exception, efforts to introduce significant reform in road pricing, aimed at raising sufficient revenue to ensure that road investment and ongoing maintenance is secured, without an additional impost to users above current outlays, while at the same time reducing traffic congestion, has fallen largely on politically non-supportive ears. The big challenge is to convince politicians (and their advisers) that it is possible to reform road pricing so that users are made better off (at least the great majority) in terms of time spent travelling and monies outlaid, and that government secures growing levels of revenue, but with at least some funds being used to improve public transport and the existing road network. This paper identifies the major issues that make much of the academic research into road pricing somewhat limited in terms of achieving real change. Staging reform is an appealing way forward, but ensuring the order and timing of events to secure progress is the big challenge. We offer some suggestions, including some ideas on new language designed to increase the level of buy in, and recognise that progress through action will require compromises in respect of an \xe2\x80\x98ideal\xe2\x80\x99 economically efficient pricing reform agenda.'] ['The interplay between congestion and crowding externalities in the design of urban bus systems is identified and analysed. A multimodal social welfare maximisation model with spatially disaggregated demand is developed, in which users choose between travelling by bus, car or walking in a transport corridor. Optimisation variables are bus fare, congestion toll, bus frequency, bus size, fare collection system, bus boarding policy and the number of seats inside buses. We find that optimal bus frequency results from a trade-off between the level of congestion inside buses, i.e., passengers\xe2\x80\x99 crowding, and the level of congestion outside buses, i.e., the effect of frequency on slowing down both buses and cars in mixed-traffic roads. A numerical application shows that optimal frequency is quite sensitive to the assumptions on crowding costs, impact of buses on traffic congestion, and overall congestion level. If crowding matters to users, buses should have as many seats as possible, up to a minimum area that must be left free of seats. If for any other reason planners decide to have buses with fewer seats than optimal (e.g., to increase bus capacity), frequency should be increased to compensate for the discomfort imposed on public transport users. Finally, the consideration of crowding externalities (on both seating and standing) imposes a sizeable increase in the optimal bus fare, and consequently, a reduction of the optimal bus subsidy.'] ['This paper reports the findings of a comparative analysis of bus rapid transit (BRT) performance using information on cross-section data of 121 BRT systems throughout the world, in which random effects regression is employed as the modelling framework for stand alone patronage and ridership models, and 3SLS for joint models in which frequency is treated as an endoneous effect on patronage. A number of sources of systematic variation are identified which have a statistically significant impact on BRT patronage in terms of daily passenger numbers such as fare, frequency, connectivity, pre-board fare collection, and location of with-flow bus lanes and doorways of a bus. In addition to the patronage model, a bus frequency model is estimated to identify the context within which higher levels of service frequency are delivered, notably where there exists higher population density, more trunk lines, the corridor provides bus priority facilities such as priority lanes for many bus routes, and where there is the presence of overtaking lanes at more than half of all stations along the heaviest section of the corridor. The findings offer important insights into features of BRT systems that are positive contributors to growing patronage which should be taken into account in designing and planning BRT systems.'] [' With rare exception, actual tollroad traffic in many countries has failed to reproduce forecast traffic levels, regardless of whether the assessment is made after an initial year of operation or as long as 10 years after opening. Pundits have offered many reasons for this divergence, including optimism bias, strategic misrepresentation, the promise to equity investors of early returns on investment, errors in land use forecasts, and specific assumptions underlying the traffic assignment models used to develop traffic forecasts. One such assumption is the selection of a behaviourally meaningful value of travel time savings (VTTS) for use in a generalised cost or generalised time user benefit expression that is the main behavioural feature of the traffic assignment (route choice) model. Numerous empirical studies using stated choice experiments have designed choice sets of alternatives as if users choose a tolled route or a free route under the (implied) assumption that the tolled route is tolled for the entire trip. Reality is often very different, with a high incidence of use of a non-tolled road leading into and connecting out of a tolled link. In this paper we recognise this feature of route choice and redesign the stated choice experiment to account for it. Furthermore, this study is a follow up to a previous study undertaken before a new toll road was in place, and it benefits from real exposure to the new toll road. We find that the VTTS is noticeably reduced, and if the VTTS is a significant contributing influence on errors on traffic forecasts, then the lower estimates make sense behaviourally. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014'] [' There is growing interest in establishing additional evidence, under the umbrella of the wider economy impacts of transport infrastructure projects, to support transport projects in general and public transport projects in particular that struggle to obtain benefit\xe2\x80\x93cost ratios sufficient to gain the support of financial agencies. This paper focuses on one element of wider economy impacts, often referred to as effective economic (employment) density or employment agglomeration impacts, and another, less usually identified, social accessibility impact (SAI) which we refer to as effective social density, which in broad terms provide, correspondingly, evidence of the potential gains in work-related output (often referred to as productivity gains) and potential gains in non-work-related outputs. Both are associated with gains in individual and household benefit attributable to improved accessibility to services linked with populations and particular locations. The SAIs may capture some of the induced benefits in those jurisdictions where these are included routinely in benefit\xe2\x80\x93cost analysis, and the methodology here is most appropriate to those settings where an existing calibrated demand curve may not be available. Using the proposed high speed rail (HSR) project between Sydney and Melbourne as the empirical setting, we identify economic agglomeration and social accessibility benefits for work and non-work related activity respectively. We find the former to be relatively small compared to the significant gains associated with non-work related travel activity, suggesting the greatest benefits associated with HSR, especially for those residents outside of the major metropolitan areas, will be non-work related travel activity. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014'] [' Latent class models offer an alternative perspective to the popular mixed logit form, replacing the continuous distribution with a discrete distribution in which preference heterogeneity is captured by membership of distinct classes of utility description. Within each class, preference homogeneity is usually assumed, although interactions with observed contextual effects are permissible. A natural extension of the fixed parameter latent class model is a random parameter latent class model which allows for another layer of preference heterogeneity within each class. This article sets out the random parameter latent class model and illustrates its applications using a stated choice data set on alternative freight distribution attribute packages pivoted around a recent trip in Australia.'] [' Latent class models offer an alternative perspective to the popular mixed logit form, replacing the continuous distribution with a discrete distribution in which preference heterogeneity is captured by membership of distinct classes of utility description. Within each class, preference homogeneity is usually assumed, although interactions with observed contextual effects are permissible. A natural extension of the fixed parameter latent class model is a random parameter latent class model which allows for another layer of preference heterogeneity within each class. A further extension is to overlay attribute processing rules such as attribute non-attendance (ANA) and aggregation of common-metric attributes (ACMA). This paper sets out the random parameter latent class model with ANA and ACMA, and illustrates its application using a stated choice data set in the context of car commuters and non-commuters choosing amongst alternative packages of travel times and costs pivoted around a recent trip in Australia. What we find is that for the particular data set analysed, in the presence of attribute processing together with the discrete distributions defined by latent classes, that adding an additional layer of heterogeneity through random parameters within a latent class only very marginally improves on the statistical contribution of the model. Nearly all of the additional fit over the fixed parameter latent class model is added by the account for attribute processing. This is an important finding that might suggest the role that attribute processing rules play in accommodating attribute heterogeneity, and that random parameters within class are essentially a potentially confounding effect. An interesting finding, however, is that the introduction of random parameters increases the probability of membership to full attribute attendance classes, which may suggest that some individuals assign a very low marginal disutility (but not zero) to specific attributes or that there are very small differences in the marginal disutility of common-metric attributes, and this is being accommodated by random parameters, but not observed under a fixed parameter latent class model. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013'] [' Random utility maximisation is the pre-eminent behavioural theory used to model choices. An alternative paradigm, however, is random regret minimisation. While the majority of the literature examines the choices of individuals, this paper compares the choices of groups, as well as individuals, in both the utility maximisation and regret minimisation frameworks, and explores the influence household members have with respect to an automobile purchase decision within an interactive agency choice experiment. Regret minimisation is shown to be the preferred behavioural mechanism for groups and individuals within groups who shoulder a high degree of responsibility for the choice of the group. \xc2\xa9 2013 LSE and the University of Bath'] [' A dominant theme in the debate on road pricing (RP) reform is securing buy in from all key stakeholders as a pre-condition for gaining support from politicians. This paper explores the key influences and the extent to which particular RP schemes are acceptable to the community at large, and how this translates into support if a scheme were subject to a vote in a referendum. Using data collected in Sydney in 2012 from a sample of car users, we estimate a recursive simultaneous bivariate probit model that recognises the endogeneity effect of scheme acceptability on voting plans. We find that there is a very strong link between voting intentions and scheme acceptability, and provide a series of direct elasticity estimates of the influence that the cost elements of RP reform schemes have on the joint probability of accepting and voting for a scheme. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013'] ['In this study we show how the coexistence of different decision rules can be accommodated in discrete choice models. Specifically, in this paper we present a generic hybrid model specification that allows for some attributes being processed using conventional linear-additive utility-maximization-based rules, while others are being processed using regret-minimization-based rules. We show that on two revealed and stated choice datasets particular specifications of hybrid models, containing both regret-based and utility-based attribute decision rules, outperform\xe2\x80\x94in terms of model fit and out-of-sample predictive ability\xe2\x80\x94choice models where all attributes are assumed to be processed by means of one and the same decision rule. However, in our data differences between models are very small. Implications, in terms of marginal willingness-to-pay measures (WtP), are derived for the different hybrid model specifications and applied in the context of the two datasets. It is found that in the context of our data hybrid WtP measures differ substantially from conventional utility-based WtP measures, and that the hybrid WtP specifications allow for a richer (choice-set-specific) interpretation of the trade-offs that people make.  Keywords: random regret, random utility, hybrid choice models, willingness to pay'] [' This paper investigates support for road pricing reform within a referendum voting choice model. Central to this is how to identify believable ex-ante support for specific road pricing schemes. Our approach is centred on a referendum voting choice model for alternative road pricing schemes, with information that accounts for the degree of belief of the extent to which such schemes will make voters better or worse off. We find accounting for belief in the benefits results in sizeable reductions in the sensitivity to the levels of the charge, but quite small impacts on the sensitivity to revenue allocation. \xc2\xa9 2013 LSE and the University of Bath'] ['This paper compares recent experiences in contract negotiation and subsequent commitment in public air services with the bus industry. The heart of the paper is a survey of European and Australian regional airlines, which we mirror with revealed experiences of bus operators. We aim to identify a number of elements in the contracting regimes that have exposed ambiguity and significant gaps in what the principal (e.g., transport department) expected, and what the agent (airline or bus operator) believed they were obliged to deliver. Ultimately airline and bus services are similar in that public authorities procure transport services that are desirable for the society but would be unprofitable without government involvement. In both sectors (theoretically fairly similar) public transport contracts are used, and those usually include obligations and performance measurements. In terms of similarities, one of the surveyed contract details that had a perceived high clarity in both industries was \xe2\x80\x9cpayment procedures\xe2\x80\x9d and amongst those with rather poor clarity was also in both industries \xe2\x80\x9cincentives to improve performance and grow patronage\xe2\x80\x9d. We also show differences between regional air services and bus operations with regard to performance measurement and pre-specified obligations. Because of the strong safety culture around air services we find that regulation and trusting partnerships are even more important to aviation than to the bus sector. Because of the high level of trust but also because of simpler and more complete contracts in aviation, there is much less (re-)negotiation going on compared to the bus operations.'] [' The appropriate interpretation of a behavioural outcome requires allowing for risk attitude and belief of an individual, in addition to identification of preferences. This paper develops an Attribute-Specific Extended Rank-Dependent Utility Theory model to better understand choice behaviour in the presence of travel time variability, in which these three important components of choice are empirically addressed. This framework is more behaviourally appealing for travel time and travel time variability research than the traditional approach in which risk attitude and belief are overlooked. This model also reveals significant unobserved between-individual heterogeneity in preferences, risk attitudes and beliefs. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013'] ['An extensive literature has recognised that when travel choices are made, only a subset of the attributes of the choice alternatives may be considered or attended to by each decision maker. Numerous econometric approaches have been employed to identify attribute nonattendance (ANA), with the most prevalent in the literature being an adaptation of the latent class model. However, the two latent class structures so far employed either incur a potentially very high parametric cost, or rely on an assumption that nonattendance is independent across all attributes. We present a generalised model that allows for an arbitrary degree of correlation of nonattendance across attributes. In the presented stated choice study investigating short haul flights, this generalised model outperforms the existing approaches. Like two recent papers, the model handles both ANA and preference heterogeneity by combining continuously distributed random parameters with latent classes. However, we present recommendations regarding a number of identification issues stemming from the combination of these two forms of random parameters not covered in those papers. Further, covariates can be introduced into our generalised model to allow insights to be gained into ANA behaviour. We investigate stated ANA as a covariate, and find inferred ANA rates to be more aligned with stated ANA responses than alternative methods.'] ["Voting support for congestion charging has a very recent history with, until now, only two congestion charging schemes approved by a majority in referendum voting (Stockholm and Milan). This paper presents a review of referendum voting behaviour in road pricing reform, in which a number of key factors that influence voters' behaviour are identified including voter expectations, awareness of what road pricing reform means, familiarity with the road pricing debate, perceived fairness, environmental concerns, car dependence, and the value of a trial. The two most important reasons that the majority of congestion charging proposals were voted against in referenda in jurisdictions such as Manchester and Edinburgh in the UK are uncertainty associated with the effectiveness of congestion charging and the lack of information on congestion charging. Based on two successful congestion charging referenda and ideas from research studies, this paper proposes a two-step approach to address the barriers to the successful implementation of congestion charging in a package of transport reform initiatives."] ['This paper uses data collected in Australia in 2010\xe2\x80\x932011 on alternative access charge regimes for freight transport, obtained from a stated choice experiment, which is used in estimation of mixed logit models calibrated on vehicle market shares, to derive matrices of direct and cross access charging elasticities that represent the relationship between an access charge (defined by combinations of distance, mass, and location), vehicle class choice, total kilometres, and tonne\xe2\x80\x93kilometres carried in the vehicle class segments. The elasticities can be used to estimate the response of heavy vehicle operators (and shippers) to price signals under the different access charging schemes.'] ['Travel time variability (i.e., random variations in travel time) leads to a travel time distribution for a repeated trip from a fixed origin to destination (e.g., from home to work). To represent travel time variability, a series of possible travel times per alternative (departure time, route or mode) are often used in stated choice experiments. In the traditional models, the probabilities associated with different travel scenarios (e.g., arriving early, on time and late) shown in the experiments are directly used as weights. However, evidence from psychology suggests that the shown probabilities may be transformed (underweighted or overweighted) by respondents. To account for this transformation of probabilities, this study incorporates perceptual conditioning through a non-linear probability weighting function into a utility maximisation framework, within which the empirical estimate of the value of expected travel time savings is estimated. The key advantage of this framework is that the estimated willingness to pay value can be directly linked to the source of utility (i.e., the probability distribution of travel time), while taking into account the perceptual transformation of probabilities.'] [' In recent years we have seen an explosion of research seeking to understand the role that rules and heuristics might play in improving the predictive capability of discrete choice models, as well as delivering willingness to pay estimates for specific attributes that may (and often do) differ significantly from estimates based on a model specification that assumes all attributes are relevant. This paper adds to that literature in one important way\xe2\x80\x94it explicitly recognises the endogeneity issues raised by typical attribute non-attendance treatments and conditions attribute parameters on underlying unobserved attribute importance ratings. We develop a hybrid model system involving attribute processing and outcome choice models in which latent variables are introduced as explanatory variables in both parts of the model, explaining the answers to attribute processing questions and explaining heterogeneity in marginal sensitivities in the choice model. The resulting empirical model explains how lower latent attribute importance leads to a higher probability of indicating that an attribute was ignored or that it was ranked as less important, as well as increasing the probability of a reduced value for the associated marginal utility coefficient in the choice model. The model does so by treating the answers to information processing questions as dependent rather than explanatory variables, hence avoiding potential risk of endogeneity bias and measurement error. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC. 2013'] ['A growing global focus on environmental concerns, in particular the role of carbon emissions in global warming, has created an atmosphere where attitudes towards the environment are a pre-eminent focus. In particular, the role of the motor vehicle in climate change has become increasingly important. In this paper a stated preference experiment is used to examine the impact of an emissions charge on vehicle choice in the context of such environmental attitudes; which are found to be key in explaining preference variation. The policy implications of this result are discussed, highlighting the usefulness of latent class modelling for policy management.'] ['Recently emerging in the stated preference literature as methods for better representing behaviour are choice certainty calibration and alternative acceptability. This paper finds that the amount of idiosyncratic error in the context of automobile choice is significant and can be explained by choice task certainty; which is a function of several respondent characteristics. However, it also finds that no theoretical framework exists for how these techniques should be applied and that econometric differences may be responsible for improvements in model fit, rather than better behavioural representation. Raising several questions about certainty indexing, researchers are advised to apply such methods cautiously.'] ['The burgeoning commitment to contracting the delivery of bus services through competitive tendering or negotiated performance-based contracts has been accompanied by as many contract payments schemes as there are contracts. We are now well placed to design a simplified performance-linked payment (SPLP) model that can be used as a reference point to ensure value for money, given the accumulation of experiences throughout the world which have revealed substantive common elements in contracts. Whether the payment to the operator is framed as a payment per passenger or as a payment per service kilometre, the SPLP identifies efficient subsidy outcomes that are linked to a proxy indicator of net social benefit per dollar of subsidy. We illustrate how the SPLP model can be applied to obtain the gross (subsidy) cost per passenger (or per passenger km) from measures of gross cost efficiency and network effectiveness. This model can then be used as part of a benchmarking activity to identify reference value of money prospects in respect of passengers per $ subsidy outlay by adjusting for influences not under the control of the service provider. A single framework to identify contract payments to operators, and to assess (i.e., benchmark) operator performance on critical KPIs, is provided by internalising critical key performance indicators (KPIs) in the design of the SPLP. The proposed SPLP model is sufficiently general to be independent of the procurement method (competitive tendered or negotiated, for example) and of the treatment of revenue allocation (net or gross based contracts), with the additional advantage of being able to assess value for money for government.'] [' The development of behaviourally richer representations of the role of well-established and increasingly important influences on modal choice, such as trip time reliability and accounting for risk attitude and process rules, has moved forward at a fast pace in the context of automobile travel. In the public transport setting, such contributions have, with rare exception, not been considered. In this paper, we discuss and empirically illustrate the merits of advanced modelling developments aimed at improving our understanding of public transport choice, namely the inclusion of reliability in extended expected utility theoretic forms, to recognize risk attitude and perceptual conditioning, the consideration of passenger crowding and its inclusion in linear additive models, and the role of multiple heuristics in representing attribute processing as a way of conditioning modal choice. We illustrate the mechanics of introducing these behaviourally appealing extensions using a modal choice data set collected in Sydney.'] ['This paper reviews 20 published congestion pricing studies with a focus on the dimensions of the stated preference or opinion survey, especially the type of charging regime and the structure of the charge. The effectiveness and acceptability of different charging regimes, as well as behavioural responses such as changes in departure time, car use, mode, residential, and work location, are synthesised, and used to provide insights to enrich our understanding of the potential role that specific congestion pricing schemes might play in influencing behavioural change. Reviewed evidence from the monitoring of the behavioural responses associated with actual congestion charging schemes, such as reduction in car trips, shift in departure times and switch to public transport, shows that the evidence from stated preference studies aligns well with the real market evidence. We also provide recommendations on the design of future stated preference studies, emphasising the need to include a systematic treatment of all key themes identified in this paper.'] ['Stated choice surveys are used extensively in the study of choice behaviour across many different areas of research, notably in transport. One of their main characteristics in comparison with most types of revealed preference (RP) surveys is the ability to capture behaviour by the same respondent under varying choice scenarios. While this ability to capture multiple choices is generally seen as an advantage, there is a certain amount of unease about survey length. The precise definition about what constitutes a large number of choice tasks however varies across disciplines, and it is not uncommon to see surveys with up to twenty tasks per respondent in some areas. The argument against this practice has always been one of reducing respondent engagement, which could be interpreted as a result of fatigue or boredom, with frequent reference to the findings of Bradley and Daly (1994) who showed a significant drop in utility scale, i.e. an increase in error, as a respondent moved from one choice experiment to the next, an effect they related to respondent fatigue. While the work by Bradley and Daly has become a standard reference in this context, it should be recognised that not only was the fatigue part of the work based on a single dataset, but the state-of-the-art and the state-of-practice in stated choice survey design and implementation has moved on significantly since their study. In this paper, we review other literature and present a more comprehensive study investigating evidence of respondent fatigue across a larger number of different surveys. Using a comprehensive testing framework employing both Logit and mixed Logit structures, we provide strong evidence that the concerns about fatigue in the literature are possibly overstated, with no clear decreasing trend in scale across choice tasks in any of our studies. For the data sets tested, we find that accommodating any scale heterogeneity has little or no impact on substantive model results, that the role of constants generally decreases as the survey progresses, and that there is evidence of significant attribute level (as opposed to scale) heterogeneity across choice tasks.'] ['Traditionally, the empirical valuation of travel time savings (VTTS) is obtained from a linear utility specification in a discrete choice model, which implicitly assumes a risk-neutral attitude. This paper draws on recent contributions by the authors that accommodate the attitude towards risk within a non-linear utility specification as a preferred framework within which to value travel time savings. The interest in the non-linear form is motivated by the evidence in Hensher et al. (2011) that mean estimates of VTTS in a proposed toll road context are significantly lower when account is taken of risk attitude. The percentage reduction in the estimate of mean VTTS is approximately (coincidentally) equal to the actual percentage error in traffic forecasts associated with the new tollroad two years after opening. If we could show that this evidence of a lower mean estimate under the non-linear treatment is found in other data settings, then we gain confidence in suggesting that the linear-utility assumption to valuing travel time savings might be a potential contributor to over-predicted tollroad traffic forecasts. The non-linear model is applied herein to two other tollroad choice data sets and we find that sampled car commuters tend to be risk taking when decision making is subject to risk (due to the presence of variability in travel times). The model produces lower mean VTTS estimates than the traditional (linear) model, providing additional evidence of a systematic over-prediction of VTTS under the linear assumption. This paper suggests that future empirical studies on valuing time savings (and variability) should address the attitude towards risk.'] ['Contrary to the usual assumption of fixed, well-defined and context independent preferences, individuals are likely to approach a choice task using rules and heuristics that are dependent on the choice environment. More specifically, heuristics that are defined by the local choice context, such as the gains or losses of an attribute value relative to the other attributes, seem to matter significantly. Recent empirical findings also demonstrate that previous choices made by respondents and previous choice tasks shown to respondents can affect the current choice outcome, indicating a form of inter-dependence across choice sets.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' We have collected information on 46 bus rapid transit (BRT) systems throughout the world to investigate the potential patronage drivers. From a large number of candidate explanatory variables (quantitative and qualitative), 11 sources of systematic variation are identified which have a statistically significant impact on daily passenger-trip numbers. These sources are fare, headway, the length of the BRT network, the number of corridors, average distance between stations; whether there is: an integrated network of routes and corridors, modal integration at BRT stations, pre-board fare collection and fare verification, quality control oversight from an independent agency, at-level boarding and alighting, as well as the location of BRT. The findings of this paper offer important insights into features of BRT systems that are positive contributors to growing patronage and hence should be taken into account in designing and planning BRT systems. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC. 2012'] ['This research article examines the Australian domestic freight transport market, focusing on the decision-making process by which cargo interests and their agents make mode choice allocation decisions between land-based transport and coastal shipping. It evaluates the willingness to pay (WTP) for various attributes of modal options on specific transport corridors. Such understanding lays the groundwork for being able to assess the likely impact of changes to transport prices arising from the introduction of carbon pricing or other regulatory factors. Reporting the results of a stated choice experiment, this article identifies and quantifies freight shippers\xe2\x80\x99 preferences for components of services offered by freight transport providers across modes with distinct characteristics (that is, mixes of speed (transit time), frequency of departure, reliability (two measures) and cost) in three corridors. There are seven variables examined: frequency, transit time, freight distance, direction (headhaul/backhaul), reliability as measured by delivery window, reliability as measured by delay and price offered by the operator. The article concludes by providing guidance on what trade-offs are relevant in shippers\xe2\x80\x99 choice of mode on the specific corridors under investigation in a more complex mode choice model than explored in previous research. It also examines what will likely happen if price rises as a result of carbon pricing regulation.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" Two issues that reflect how individuals make travel or vehicle purchase choices are the relevance of attribute levels associated with alternatives, and the extent to which the respondent is certain of actually choosing the alternative that they indicated was their preferred alternative. This paper studies the influence of acceptability of each alternative, attribute thresholds, and choice response certainty on automobile purchase preferences, 'scaling' of the standard utility expression to account for perceived acceptability of each alternative, and perceived attribute thresholds. A comparison of the models shows the significant improvement in predictive power with inferred direct elasticities that are substantially different. \xc2\xa9 2012 LSE and the University of Bath"] [" Attitude towards risk is important to individual decision making. Rank-dependent utility theory is an appealing framework within which to study decision making under risk. This paper specifies Rank-Dependent Utility (RDU) models in the context of a stated choice experiment of commuter's risky route choice to (a) estimate willingness to pay for travel time, and (b) understand the risk attitudes of sampled respondents and their socioeconomic characteristics. We also allow for unobserved taste heterogeneity within an RDU framework using a mixed multinomial logit model. The findings provide a new set of empirical estimates of the value of travel time savings that allow for travel time variability combined into a single measure, referred to as the value of expected travel time savings. \xc2\xa9 2012 LSE and the University of Bath"] ['There is growing interest in incorporating both preference heterogeneity and scale heterogeneity in choice models, as a way of capturing an increasing number of sources of utility amongst a set of alternatives. The extension of mixed logit to incorporate scale heterogeneity in a generalised mixed logit (GMXL) model provides a way to accommodate these sources of influence, observed and unobserved. The small but growing number of applications of the GMXL model have parameterized scale heterogeneity as a single estimate; however it is often the case that analysts pool data from more than one source, be it revealed preference (RP) and stated preference (SP) sources, or multiple SP sources, inducing the potential for differences in the scale factor between the data sources. Existing practice has developed ways of accommodating scale differences between data sources by adopting a scale homogeneity assumption within each data source (e.g., the nested logit trick) that varies between data sources. This paper extends the state of the art by incorporating data-source specific scale differences in scale heterogeneity setting across pooled RP and SP data set. An example of choice amongst RP and SP transport modes (including two \xe2\x80\x98new\xe2\x80\x99 SP modes) is used to obtain values of travel time savings that vary significantly between a model that accounts for scale heterogeneity differences within pooled RP and SP data, and the other where differences in scale heterogeneity is also accommodated between RP and SP data.'] [' There is a growing body of evidence in the non-market valuation literature suggesting that responses to a sequence of discrete choice questions tend to violate the assumptions typically made by analysts regarding independence of responses and stability of preferences. Decision processes (or heuristics) such as value learning and strategic misrepresentation have been offered as explanations for these results. While a few studies have tested these heuristics as competing hypotheses, none has investigated the possibility that each explains the response behaviour of a subgroup of the population. In this paper, we make a contribution towards addressing this research gap by presenting a probabilistic decision process model designed to estimate the proportion of respondents employing defined heuristics. We demonstrate the model on binary and multinomial choice data sources and find three distinct types of response behaviour. The results suggest that accounting for heterogeneity in response behaviour may be a better way forward than attempting to identify a single heuristic to explain the behaviour of all respondents.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Contrary to the usual assumption of fixed, well-defined preferences, it is increasingly evident that individuals are likely to approach a choice task using rules and decision heuristics that are dependent on the choice environment. More specifically, heuristics that are defined by the local choice context, such as the gains or losses of an attribute value relative to the other attributes, seem to be consistently employed. Recent empirical findings also demonstrate that previous choices and previously encountered choice tasks shown to respondents can affect the current choice outcome, indicating a form of inter-dependence across choice sets. This paper is primarily focused on reviewing how heuristics have been modelled in stated choice data. The paper begins with a review of the heuristics that may be relevant for coping with choice task complexity and then proceeds to discuss some modelling approaches. Next, relational heuristics, such as prospect theory, random regret minimization and extremeness aversion (compromise effect) are discussed. These are heuristics which operate within the local choice set. Another major class of heuristics reviewed in this paper pertains to ordering effects and more generally on past outcomes and past attribute levels of the alternatives.'] ['Within the discrete choice literature, there is growing recognition that some respondents do not process all attributes when evaluating their choice outcomes. Worryingly, the cost attribute is often among those attributes that are likely to be ignored by respondents. We use probabilistic decision process models (similar in form to latent class models, but where we define the classes to describe specific heuristics) to facilitate situations where respondents adopt cost thresholds and cut-offs. We further develop this model to address the potential confounding between preference heterogeneity and processing heterogeneity by simultaneously allowing for a segmentation of respondents based on their sensitivities to cost. Results, based on an empirical dataset on the existence value of rare fish species in Ireland, provide further confirmation that a share of respondents did not attended to cost. Importantly, however, when heterogeneity to cost levels is accounted for the inferred incidence of complete non-attendance is markedly lower, to the extent that when cost thresholds and cut-offs are also accommodated it almost disappears. This modelling approach leads to significant gains in model fit and has important implications for welfare analysis.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Recent research by the authors has shown that increasing trip making and improving a person\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x84\xa2s social capital and sense of community is likely to reduce risks of social exclusion. That research has enabled values to be assigned to additional trip making, in the context of reducing risk of social exclusion. This paper extends that analysis to impute values to increasing a person\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x84\xa2s sense of community and social capital. The social capital extension requires strong assumptions for the derivation of values, given the available data, but the valuation of sense of community is likely to be an important new support for policy measures intended to achieve this purpose.'] ['Discrete choice (DC) models are commonly used as basic building blocks in \xe2\x80\x98bottom-up\xe2\x80\x99 models which seek to describe consumer and producer behaviour at a disaggregate level, in contrast to continuous demand (CD) models which are used to describe behaviour at a more aggregate level. At a disaggregate level, choice behaviour is defined in terms of commodities differentiated by qualities or attributes. In contrast, aggregate demand behaviour is defined in terms of broadly defined and generically different commodities. In a DC model, the main focus of analysis is not the total quantity of demand, but rather the relative shares or substitution between the choice alternatives, in contrast to a continuous demand model where the focus is on the aggregate substitution between groups of commodities as well as on the income effects. Seen in this way, there is scope for complementary usage of DC and CD models within the framework of a CGE model where DC models are used to describe the preferences for a narrowly defined set of commodities belonging to a particular sector of an economy, and CD models are used to describe the interactions between these sectors. In this paper, we describe how DC and CD models can be used in such an integrated fashion in a spatial computable general equilibrium model to inquire into the wider economic impacts of a transport investment project in the Sydney Metropolitan Area.'] ['It is widely recognized that individual decision making is subject to the evaluation of gains and losses around a reference point. The estimation of discrete choice models increasingly use data from stated choice experiments which are pivoted around a reference alternative. However, to date, the specification of a reference alternative in transport studies is fixed, whereas it is common to observe individuals adjusting their preferences according to a change in their reference point. This paper focuses on individual reactions, in a freight choice context, to a negative change in the reference alternative values, identifying the behavioural implications in terms of loss aversion and diminishing sensitivity. The results show a significant adjustment in the valuation of gains and losses around a shifted reference alternative. In particular, we find an average increase in loss aversion for cost and time attributes, and a substantial decrease for punctuality. These findings are translated to significant differences in the willingness to pay and willingness to accept measures, providing supporting evidence of respondents\xe2\x80\x99 behavioural reaction.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["Building on a growing research foundation, transport policy makers have begun to associate the ability to be mobile with having a role in the facilitation of social inclusion. However, the further connection to well-being is not as well understood. This paper explores the association between a person's travel patterns, their risk of social exclusion and self-assessed well-being. Key influences on social exclusion are discussed, with trip making emerging as a significant influence. Trip making is not a significant direct influence on well-being but does exercise an indirect influence through the impact on risk of social exclusion. The modelling process enables a value for additional trips to be estimated, the value being about four times the values derived from conventional generated traffic approaches. Similar high values are found in separate metropolitan and regional case studies, confirming the significance of the results."] [' In this paper, we examine the main concepts of transport pricing in an urban environment, focusing on the automobile, public transport and walking or cycling as travel alternatives. A review of the literature on the first-best and second-best pricing policies is provided, with an emphasis on public transport pricing, including the setting of frequency and vehicle capacity, the influence of bus congestion externalities and the interactions between transport pricing reforms and the broader tax system. A model is developed to analyse the impact of non-motorized transport on optimal public transport pricing policy, congestion interactions between cars and buses associated with the transfer of passengers at bus stops and the existence of a capacity constraint within the public transport mode.'] ['In recent years we have seen important extensions of logit models in behavioural research such as incorporation of preference and scale heterogeneity, attribute processing heuristics, and estimation of willingness to pay (WTP) in WTP space. With rare exception, however, a non-linear treatment of the parameter set to allow for behavioural reality, such as embedded risk attitude and perceptual conditioning of occurrence probabilities attached to specific attributes, is absent. This is especially relevant to the recent focus in travel behaviour research on identifying the willingness to pay for reduced travel time variability, which is the source of estimates of the value of trip reliability that has been shown to take on an increasingly important role in project appraisal. This paper incorporates, in a generalised non-linear (in parameters) logit model, alternative functional forms for perceptual conditioning (known as probability weighting) and risk attitude in the utility function to account for travel time variability, and then derives an empirical estimate of the willingness to pay for trip time variability-embedded travel time savings as an alternative to separate estimates of time savings and trip time reliability. We illustrate the richness of the approach using a stated choice data set for commuter choice between unlabelled attribute packages. Statistically significant risk attitude parameters and parameters underlying decision weights are estimated for multinomial logit and mixed multinomial logit models, along with values of expected travel time savings.'] [" This paper investigates factors likely to increase a person's risk of social exclusion, drawing on survey data specifically framed for this purpose. We use a generalised ordered logit model that accounts for observed and unobserved heterogeneity and derive the marginal effects for each influencing attribute. We find that people are less likely to be at risk of social exclusion if they have regular contact with significant others, have a sense of community, are not poor, are mobile, and are open to new experiences which enable them to grow on a personal level. The value of an additional trip is estimated at &amp;dollar;A20. \xc2\xa9 2011 LSE and the University of Bath"] ["  Motorcycle activity in Asian economies is a significant contributor to carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions, both when moving and when idling at traffic lights. This paper investigates Taiwanese motorcyclists\xe2\x80\x99 behavior of turning off the idling engine while stopping at traffic lights based on the theory of planned behavior (TPB), which recognizes that the achievement of voluntary change behavior can be identified by knowing an individual's attitudes (or behavioral intentions [BIs]) in the context of social norms (SN). A structural equation model system is used to identify candidate causal links between attitudes, SN, BI and behavior related to the idling stop behavior of motorcyclists. A partial least squares (PLS) model is built to correct the covariance matrix, given the relatively small sample size. Results suggest that attitudes, SN and perceived behavioral control, are significant determinants of idling stop BI at red lights."] ['Underground low-voltage electricity networks have several advantages over overhead networks including reliability of supply, safety and improved visual amenity. The economic viability of replacing existing overhead networks with new underground networks depends on the value of these benefits to households, but no complete value estimates are available in the literature. This paper represents a contribution towards addressing this research gap. A stated choice survey is used to estimate willingness to pay for undergrounding in established residential areas in Canberra, Australia. Average willingness to pay is at least A$6838 per household and there is significant variation in preferences over the population. The results suggest that benefits would be highest in areas with higher household income and older residents where visual amenity, safety, tree trimming, or restrictions on the use of yard space are of concern.'] ['According to neoclassical economic theory, a stated preference elicitation format comprising a single binary choice between the status quo and one alternative is incentive compatible under certain conditions. Formats typically used in choice experiments comprising a sequence of discrete choice questions do not hold this property. In this paper, the effect on stated preferences of expanding the number of binary choice tasks per respondent from one to four is tested using a split sample treatment in an attribute-based survey relating to the undergrounding of overhead low-voltage electricity and telecommunications wires. We find evidence to suggest that presenting multiple choice tasks per respondent decreases estimates of expected willingness to pay. Preferences stated in the first of a sequence of choice tasks are not significantly different from those stated in the incentive compatible single binary choice task, but, in subsequent choice tasks, responses are influenced by cost levels observed in past questions. Three behavioural explanations can be advanced - weak strategic misrepresentation, reference point revision, and asymmetric value learning. The evidence is contrary to the standard assumption of truthful response with stable preferences.'] ["As a result of the liberalisation of airline markets; the strong growth of low cost carriers; the high volatility in fuel prices; and the recent global financial crisis, the cost pressure that airlines face is very substantial. In order to survive in these very competitive environments, information on what factors impact on costs and efficiency of airlines is crucial in guiding strategic change. To evaluate key determinants of 58 passenger airlines' efficiency, this paper applies a two-stage Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) approach, with partially bootstrapped random effects Tobit regressions in the second stage. Our results suggest that the effects of route optimisation, in the sense of average stage length of the fleet, are limited to airline technical efficiency. We show that airline size and key fleet mix characteristics, such as aircraft size and number of different aircraft families in the fleet, are more relevant to successful cost management of airlines since they have significant impacts on all three types of airline efficiency: technical, allocative and, ultimately, cost efficiency. Our results also show that despite the fuel saving benefits of younger aircraft, the age of an airline's fleet has no significant impact on its technical efficiency, but does have a positive impact on its allocative and cost efficiency."] ["To improve airport ground access at Taoyouan International Airport (TIA) in Taiwan, the government of Taiwan is constructing a mass rapid transit system (TIA MRT) to connect the airport and important traffic hubs such as the Taipei train station and the Taoyouan High Speed Rail station. Using revealed and stated preference data, we investigate the airport ground access mode choice behavior of air passengers who are traveling overseas from Taiwan. A mixed logit model is estimated to identify the preferences of air passengers for the new mode. The results indicate that while out-of-vehicle travel time and in-vehicle travel time are two important factors in affecting outbound travelers' choice of airport access mode, the amount of overall time-savings and the user-friendly nature of the modal offers are also crucial attributes. We show the extent to which travel time improvements associated with public transportation reduces the market share of private transportation and taxi."] ["This paper investigates the role of preference and scale heterogeneity in the mode choice process of shippers in the Atlantic Canada-US eastern seaboard market. The generalised mixed logit model is estimated to account for heterogeneity in preferences for frequency of departure of freight transport services, along with heterogeneity in scale across respondents. The contributions of the paper to the literature are: the revelation of significant preference and scale heterogeneity in the sample; the estimated distribution of shippers' willingness-to-pay for gains in service frequency; and the confirmation that there is merit in accounting for scale heterogeneity in future and revisited choice studies."] ['Microeconomic optimisation of scheduled public transport operations has traditionally focused on finding optimal values for the frequency of service, capacity of vehicles, number of lines and distance between stops. In addition, however, there exist other elements in the system that present a trade-off between the interests of users and operators that have not received attention in the literature, such as the optimal selection of a fare payment system and a designed running speed (i.e., the cruising speed that buses maintain in between two consecutive stops). Alternative fare payment methods (e.g., on-board and off-board, payment by cash, magnetic strip or smart card) have different boarding times and capital costs, with the more efficient systems such as a contactless smart card imposing higher amounts of capital investment. Based on empirical data from several Bus Rapid Transit systems around the world, we also find that there is a positive relationship between infrastructure cost per kilometre and commercial speed (including stops), achieved by the buses, which we further postulate as a linear relationship between infrastructure investment and running speed. Given this context, we develop a microeconomic model for the operation of a bus corridor that minimises total cost (users and operator) and has five decision variables: frequency, capacity of vehicles, station spacing, fare payment system and running speed, thus extending the traditional framework. Congestion, induced by bus frequency, plays an important role in the design of the system, as queues develop behind high demand bus stops when the frequency is high. We show that (i) an off-board fare payment system is the most cost effective in the majority of circumstances; (ii) bus congestion results in decreased frequency while fare and bus capacity increase, and (iii) the optimal running speed grows with the logarithm of demand.'] [" A major concern with the derivation of willingness to pay (WTP) distributions from mixed logit models is the incidence of values over a range that are deemed 'behaviourally questionable', with respect to the sign and magnitude. Recent research in redefining the 'space' within which a choice model is estimated as WTP space, instead of preference-space, has offered encouraging evidence in reducing the range of behavioural implausibility. This paper develops models to compare the empirical evidence when a mixed logit model is estimated with unconstrained distributions on random parameters in WTP and preference space, taking into account scale and the correlation between the attributes. The findings suggest that the gap between the evidence in WTP and preference space narrows significantly when both scale and preference heterogeneity are identified. \xc2\xa9 2011 LSE and the University of Bath"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' There is a growing literature on the design and use of stated choice experiments. Analysts have developed sophisticated ways of analysing such data, using a form of discrete choice model to identify the marginal (dis)utility associated with observed attributes linked to an alternative, as well as accounting for preference and scale heterogeneity. There is also a growing literature studying the attribute processing rules that respondents use as a way of simplifying the task of choosing. Using the latent class framework, we define classes based on rules that recognise the non-attendance to one or more attributes. These processing rules are postulated to be used in real markets as a form of cognitive rationalisation. The empirical study involves a choice amongst rural environmental landscape improvements in the Republic of Ireland. We estimate models and calculate a marginal willingness to pay (WTP) for four landscape improvements, and contrast it with the results from a model specification in which all attributes are assumed to be attended to with parameter preservation. We find that the marginal WTP is, on average, significantly higher when full attribute preservation specification is adopted, raising questions about the appropriateness of current practice that assume a fully compensatory attribute choice rule.'] [' The choice of automobile purchases in households often involves participation of more than one household member, each of which exerts some degree of influence on the final choice outcome. The influence of more than one agent has been recognised for many years, and yet the majority of automobile choice studies develop choice models as if a single agent is involved in the preference revelation process. What is not clear is whether it makes any substantive difference in preference revelation according to who is interviewed in a household. Using a generalised mixed logit framework that accounts for preference and scale heterogeneity, we estimate a series of models to investigate whether there are significant differences between the preferences of each individual in a household when assessed in isolation from other household members, as well as their joint preferences when expressing their preferences through a group choice task. The context is choosing amongst petrol, diesel and hybrid fuelled vehicles (associated with specific levels of fuel efficiency and engine capacity) when faced with a mix of vehicle prices, fuel prices, fixed annual registration fees, annual emission surcharges and vehicle kilometre emission surcharges. Using a stated choice experiment, we find that sampling a single individual as a representative of the household\xe2\x80\x99s preferences is less appropriate than utilising preference information from the relevant group of decision makers in the household. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media B.V. 2011'] [' Behavioural choice modelling is growing in interest as a framework to understand the decision-making of shippers, freight forwarders and other freight agents. Since the 1980s, we have witnessed an increasing number of freight behaviour studies, primarily the freight mode choice, where the roles of one or more freight decision-makers has been addressed, which was neglected in the traditional aggregate approach to freight demand modelling. Stated preference techniques have become a main approach to establishing the role of attributes that define the key drivers in the freight distribution chain. The underlying theory of choice is based on the neoclassical economic assumption that a decision-maker, in choosing, acts as if they are a utility maximizer (working to deliver a profit maximization or cost minimization outcome for the freight business), and this utility maximizing behaviour engenders a population theory of Random Utility Maximization (RUM). Despite the continuing appeal of the RUM framework in applied travel choice studies, a number of specific application assumptions have been questioned by studies in psychology and behavioural economics, arguing that the decisions made by agents are often conditioned on a number of underlying psychological components, one of which is risk attitude. This paper reviews recent freight behaviour studies established on RUM, and presents a major limitation of adopting a risk-neutral assumption through its linear utility specification. Using an existing freight stated choice data set, a nonlinear utility model is estimated which reveals risk-taking attitudes of transporters and shippers. An alternative behavioural paradigm, Rank-Dependent Utility Theory (RDUT), is introduced and incorporated to better accommodate trip time variability, a feature of growing importance in transport systems (passenger and freight). The proposed attribute-specific extended RDUT framework that accommodates the attitude towards risk and preference in freight transport behaviour modelling requires new data, which we detail.'] ['Transport is Australia\xe2\x80\x99s third largest and second fastest growing source of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The road transport sector makes up 88% of total transport emissions and the projected emissions increase from 1990 to 2020 is 64%. Achieving prospective emission reduction targets will pose major challenges for the road transport sector. This paper investigates two targets for reducing Australian road transport greenhouse gas emissions, and what they might mean for the sector: emissions in 2020 being 20% below 2000 levels; and emissions in 2050 being 80% below 2000 levels. Six ways in which emissions might be reduced to achieve these targets are considered. The analysis suggests that major behavioural and technological changes will be required to deliver significant emission reductions, with very substantial reductions in vehicle emission intensity being absolutely vital to making major inroads in road transport GHG emissions.'] ['Freight demand elasticity studies vary significantly in terms of the demand measure, data type, estimation method, commodity type, etc. This wide variation makes it difficult to compare empirical estimates when the differences may arise in part from the methods and data used. In this paper we conduct a comparative analysis to identify systematic sources of influence on direct price elasticity estimates in the context of freight transport, distinguishing between road, rail, and sea transport, using published direct price elasticities from 12 elasticity-derivative studies from five countries. The study focuses on revealed preference elasticities defined by the freight rate for tonnes and tonne kilometres of inter-city freight movements. Systematic sources that explain differences in direct price elasticities include the demand elasticity measure, mode, commodity class, model estimation form, country, and temporal nature of data (e.g., cross-section). Analysts can utilise the model outputs to adjust the empirical evidence from specific studies to control for differences that impact on the behavioural implications of comparative evidence.'] ['This paper reviews public transport crowding valuation research, using a number of primary studies conducted in the UK, USA, Australia and Israel. We identify three measures used to value crowding (a time multiplier, a monetary value per time unit and a monetary value per trip), and associated ways of representing crowding in stated preference experiments. Although a number of different types of crowding in terms of location are identified, namely in-vehicle, access-way, entrance and platform/station, the majority of reviewed studies investigate only in-vehicle crowding. Despite the different characteristics of the reviewed studies, they all report that crowding would increase the value of travel time savings, which can be viewed as an additional component of generalised time. This paper also comments on the role that the WTP for crowding reduction can play in project appraisal, and suggests some important avenues for future public transport crowding valuation research.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This paper reviews and critiques the modelling frameworks and empirical measurement paradigms used to obtain willingness to pay (WTP) for improved travel time reliability, suggesting new directions for ongoing research. We also estimate models to derive values of reliability, scheduling costs and reliability ratios in the context of Australian toll roads and use the new evidence to highlight the important influence of the way that trip time variability is included in stated preference studies in deriving WTP estimates of reliability in absolute terms, and relative to the value of travel time savings.'] [" A growing number of empirical studies involve the assessment of influences on a choice amongst ordered discrete alternatives. Ordered logit and probit models are well known, including extensions to accommodate random parameters and heteroscedasticity in unobserved variance. This paper extends the ordered choice random parameter model to permit random parameterisation of thresholds and decomposition to establish observed sources of systematic variation in the threshold parameter distribution. We illustrate the empirical gains of this model, over the traditional ordered choice model, by identifying candidate influences on the role that specific attributes play, in the sense of being ignored or not (including being aggregated where they are in common-metric units), in an individual's choice amongst unlabelled attribute packages of alternative tolled and non-tolled routes for the commuting trip. The empirical ordering represents the number of attributes attended to from the full fixed set. The evidence suggests that there is significant heterogeneity associated with the thresholds, that can be connected to systematic sources associated with the respondent (that is, gender) and the choice experiment, and hence the generalised extension of the ordered choice model is an improvement, behaviourally, over the simpler model. \xc2\xa9 2010 LSE and the University of Bath"] ['This paper reviews a number of themes that have played a crucial role in the debate on alternative contracting regimes for the provision of urban bus services. We have selected four crucial issues to reflect on: (i) contractual regimes (in particular competitive tendering as compared to negotiated performance-based contracts, as means to award the rights to provide service); (ii) contract completeness (focussing on ex ante and ex post elements); (iii) building trust through partnership; and (iv) tactical or system level planning for bus services. Experience in these areas suggests that competitive tendering has frequently not lived up to expectations and that negotiation is likely in many circumstances to deliver better value for money.'] ['This paper applies the bounded rationality rule to analyse commuters\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x84\xa2 mode-switching behaviour from private transport (i.e. automobile and motorbike) to public transport (i.e. rail transit and bus transit) in the Taipei metropolitan area. A stated choice approach was used to collect the data and to investigate how different attributes, such as parking fees, travel time and cost, influence commuters\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x84\xa2 mode-switching behaviour. A multinomial probit modelling framework was developed to capture the correlation effects when commuters switch from private to public modes. The estimation results indicate that the socioeconomic characteristics and trip characteristics significantly influence commuters\xc3\xa2\xe2\x82\xac\xe2\x84\xa2 mode-switching behaviour. Accounting for the structure of unobserved effects suggests that switching behaviour from private to public modes was significantly positively correlated. An elasticity analysis shows that private commuters were more likely to switch to MRT than to bus and that auto commuters are generally more likely to switch to public modes than are motorbike commuters.'] ['Transport fuel consumption and its determinants have received a great deal of attention since the early 1970s. In the literature, different types of modelling methods have been used to estimate petrol demand, each having methodological strengths and weaknesses. This paper is motivated by an ongoing need to review the effectiveness of empirical fuel demand forecasting models, with a focus on theoretical as well as practical considerations in the model-building processes of different model forms. We consider a linear trend model, a quadratic trend model, an exponential trend model, a single exponential smoothing model, Holt\'s linear model, Holt-Winters\' model, a partial adjustment model (PAM), and an autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) model. More importantly, the study identifies the difference between forecasts and actual observations of petrol demand in order to identify forecasting accuracy. Given the identified best-forecasting model, Australia\'s automobile petrol demand from 2007 through to 2020 is presented under the "business-as-usual" scenario.'] ['This paper presents a qualitative assessment of the risk perceptions held by key Australian stakeholder groups in the context of tollroads operated under the public-private-partnership model. The findings confirm that experience accumulated in recent years has contributed toward the betterment of risk-sharing optimisation amongst the contracting parties. The knowledge acquired through in-depth interviews supports the common view that equitable risk sharing is the vital ingredient of value for money. The proposition that the private sector is better equipped to manage commercial risks involving economic decision making whilst risks that have embedded unquantifiable social and public values and those in the domain of public governance are best left with government alone, appears to be replete with refutable implications. Public perception is a malleable concept and should be managed by both sectors.'] ["In the transport sector, many types of contracts exist. Some are very precise, and strive for completeness; others are very [`]light-weight' and are incomplete. Bus and coach contracts, won through competitive tendering or negotiation, are typically incomplete in the sense of an inability to verify all the relevant obligations, as articulated through a set of deliverables. This paper draws on recent experiences in contract negotiation, and subsequent commitment in the bus sector, to identify what elements of the contracting regime have exposed ambiguity and significant gaps in what the principal expected, and what the agent believed they were obliged to deliver. We develop a series of regression models to investigate the extent of discrepancy between the principal and the agents perceived [`]understanding' of contract obligations. The empirical evidence, from a sample of bus operators, is used to identify the extent of perceived incompleteness and clarity across a sample of bus contracts. A noteworthy finding is the important role that a trusting partnership plays in reducing the barriers to establishing greater clarity of contract specification and obligations, and in recognition of the degree of contract completeness."] ['We compare analytically and numerically the optimised performance of different urban public transport modes for three objectives: total cost minimisation, profit maximisation, and welfare maximisation. We find that under optimal operation, buses provide lower waiting time and operator costs, therefore the only possible advantage for rail is providing a lower in-vehicle time cost if trains are faster. Using Australian data, we found that bus rapid transit provides a lower total cost, higher profit and welfare, up to their capacity. Introducing passengers dislike of crowding and train-specific attraction elements might make Heavy Rail the most cost effective mode for high levels of demand.'] ['Using a sample of 245 direct petrol price elasticities of car travel collected from 52 published mode choice studies, a random coefficient regression model is estimated to account for heterogeneity in the influence of the type of data used in the various studies (RP, SP and a combination of RP/SP). The focus on the type of data is designed to highlight a concern that has emerged in the way that an increasing number of researchers and consultants derive elasticities from stand-alone stated preference studies, and apply them. It is well known that this is not valid without model calibration (usually via the mode-specific constants), since the elasticity formula uses the probability of an alternative being chosen. To understand the extent of possible behavioural response bias when calibration is ignored is important, signalling a possible adjustment process to correct for the absence of calibration relative to calibrated RP and or RP/SP derived elasticities.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['  Over the last 15 years we have seen a small but growing interest in Prospect Theory (PT) as an alternative behavioural paradigm within which to represent traveller behaviour. Some elements of PT such as gains and losses have become so popular in travel choice studies that authors increasingly indicate that they are applying PT. In its strictest interpretation, PT has a number of essential elements that must be included if the link with PT can be claimed. This paper reviews recent transportation studies which report an association with PT as a way of gaining a greater appreciation of what is and what is not an application of PT. We set the scene by providing an overview of PT using studies in the fields of psychology and behavioural economics, where PT was originally established and further developed, and then identify travel behaviour studies which satisfy the PT (Original or Cumulative PT) conditions. A number of specific issues are identified to highlight the connection to PT, including empirically estimated prospect theoretic parameters and referencing. Some behavioural limitations of the reviewed transport PT studies are also presented, including the absence of willingness to pay estimates and consideration of unobserved between\xe2\x80\x90individual heterogeneity.'] ["  The use of fossil fuels in transportation is an important topic as a result of growing concerns over global warming. Automobile petrol demand has been of particular interest to researchers and policy-makers, given that the automobile is a major contributor to the enhanced greenhouse effect. This paper forecasts Australia's automobile petrol demand up to the year 2020 based on the best performing forecasting model selected out of eight models. In order to establish ways to reduce the demand for petrol, and the consequent by-product of reducing the amount of greenhouse gas emissions, we have estimated the impact on CO 2 for several potential policy instruments, using Transportation and Environment Strategy Impact Simulator (an integrated transport, land use and environmental strategy impact simulation programme). We find that a carbon tax of AU$0.50/kg can reduce automobile kilometres by 5.9%, resulting in reduced demand for petrol and a reduction in CO 2 of 1.5%."] ['Land management in Alpine parks provides multifunctional services to separate groups of users. Choice experiments can be used to derive estimates of value for different management attributes. However, little research has been conducted on how frequently respondents ignore attributes used to describe policy management scenarios. We fill this gap using an approach that identifies and compares both serial and choice task attribute nonattendance addressing five different visitor types. Our results indicate that accounting for choice task nonattendance significantly improves model fit and yield estimates of marginal willingness to pay with a more plausible pattern of signs and greater efficiency.'] ['With the growing reliance on Stated Choice (SC) data, researchers are increasingly interested in understanding how respondents process the information presented to them in such surveys. Specifically, it has been argued that some respondents may simplify the choice tasks by consistently ignoring one or more of the attributes describing the alternatives, and direct questions put to respondents after the completion of SC surveys support this hypothesis. However, in the general context of issues with response quality in SC data, there are certainly grounds for questioning the reliability of stated attribute processing strategies. In this paper, we take a different approach by attempting to infer attribute processing strategies through the analysis of respondent-specific coefficient distributions obtained through conditioning on observed choices. Our results suggest that a share of respondents do indeed ignore a subset of explanatory variables. However, there is also some evidence that the inferred attribute processing strategies are not necessarily consistent with the stated attribute processing strategies. Additionally, there is some evidence that respondents who claim to have ignored a certain attribute may simply have assigned it lesser importance. The results produced by the inferring approach not only lead to slightly better fit but also more consistent results.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['A model to compare three alternative forms of public transport - light rail, heavy rail and bus rapid transit - is developed for an urban network with radial lines emanating from the borders to the city centre. The theoretical framework assumes an operation aimed at minimising the total cost associated with public transport service provision, which encompasses both operator and users costs. The decision variables are the number of lines (network density) and the frequency per period for each mode. This approach has no prejudices a priori in respect of whether a specified delivery scenario is aligned with existing modal reputation. Rather, we establish the conditions under which a specific transit mode should be preferred to another in terms of the operator (supply) and user (demand) side offerings. The model is applied using data from Australian cities, suggesting that in most of the scenarios analysed a high standard bus service is the most cost-effective mode, because it provides lower operator costs (infrastructure, rolling stock and operating cost), access time costs (due to a larger number of lines) and waiting time cost (due to larger frequencies of operation). A rail mode, such as light rail or heavy rail, may have a lower total cost only if it is able to run faster than bus rapid transit, and the difference in speed is enough to outweigh the bus advantage on operator cost and access and waiting times.'] ['Choice behaviour might be determined by asymmetric preferences whether the consumers are faced with gains or losses. This paper investigates loss aversion and diminishing sensitivity, and analyzes their implications on willingness to pay and willingness to accept measures in a reference pivoted choice experiment in a freight transport framework. The results suggest a significant model fit improvement when preferences are treated as asymmetric, proving both loss aversion and diminishing sensitivity. The implications on willingness to pay and willingness to accept indicators are particular relevant showing a remarkable difference between symmetric and asymmetric model specifications. Not accounting for loss aversion and diminishing sensitivity, when present, produces misleading results and might affect significantly the policy decisions.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["There is growing interest in establishing the extent of differences in willingness to pay (WTP) for attributes, such as travel time savings, that are derived from real market settings and hypothetical (to varying degrees) settings. Non-experiment external validity tests involving observation of choice activity in a natural environment, where the individuals do not know they are in an experiment, are rare. In contrast the majority of tests are a test of external validity between hypothetical and actual experiments. Deviation from real market evidence is referred to in the literature broadly as hypothetical bias. The challenge is to identify such bias, and to the extent to which it exists, establishing possible ways to minimise it. This paper reviews the efforts to date to identify and 'calibrate' WTP derived from one or more methods that involve assessment of hypothetical settings, be they (i) contingent valuation methods, (ii) choice experiments involving trading attributes between multiple alternatives, with or without referencing, or (iii) methods involving salient or non-salient incentives linked to actual behaviour. Despite progress in identifying possible contributions to differences in marginal WTP, there is no solid evidence, although plenty of speculation, to explain the differences between all manner of hypothetical experiments and non-experimental evidence. The absence of non-experimental evidence from natural field experiments remains a major barrier to confirmation of under or over-estimation. We find, however, that the role of referencing of an experiment relative to a real experience (including evidence from revealed preference (RP) studies), in the design of choice experiments, appears to offer promise in the derivation of estimates of WTP that have a meaningful link to real market activity, closing the gap between RP and SC WTP outputs."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In recent years there has been a re-focus on the valuation of a statistical life from the ex post or human capital method to an ex ante willingness to pay (WTP) approach. This is in part a recognition that we may have been undervaluing the cost of fatalities and injuries to society associated with crashes, but also a strong belief in the need to focus on establishing the amount, ex ante, that individuals are willing to pay to reduce the risk of exposure to circumstances that might lead to death or degree of injury on the road network. This study has developed a framework in which to identify the degree of preference heterogeneity in willingness to pay by individuals who are drivers or passengers in cars to avoid being killed or injured. A stated choice experiment approach is developed. The empirical setting is a choice of route for a particular trip that a sample of individuals periodically undertakes in Australia. The particular trip is described in enough detail to provide the respondent with a familiar market environment, providing all the relevant background information required for making a decision. Mixed logit models are estimated to obtain the marginal (dis)utilities associated with each influence on the choice amongst the attribute packages offered in the stated choice scenarios. These estimates are used to obtain the WTP distributions for fatality and injury avoidance, which are then aggregated to obtain estimates of the value of risk reduction (VRR), of which the fatality class is also known as the value of a statistical life (VSL).'] ['Choice analysts increasingly use a mix of revealed preference and stated choice data paradigms to identify preferences of samples of individuals that are used to infer behavioural response and willingness to pay for specific attributes. These data are in a sense artificial constructs that are developed to approximate real choice settings of the way that individuals process relevant information in making choices. As such, all data designs formalized through a survey instrument seek information through questions that become descriptions of events and as such the probabilities of choice that are of interest are strictly probabilities attached to event descriptions and not choice probabilities of events per se. The recognition of this distinction, initially noted by Kahneman et al. [Kahneman, D., Slovic, P., Tversky, A., 1982. Judgement under uncertainty: Heuristics and biases. Cambridge University Press, New York], can be captured, at least in part, through the idea of process heterogeneity, as a way of recognizing and accounting for the many ways in which individuals process information, and in part is influenced by the way the analyst describes the context in which preference data is sought. Building on previous contributions on attribute processing, this paper draws on recent empirical evidence to further reinforce the importance of joint modelling of process and outcome in choice analysis. This study adds to the evidence of a trend emerging on the upward bias of mean estimates of marginal willingness to pay when ignoring process heterogeneity.'] ["This study presents a joint model system of residential location and activity time-use choices that considers a comprehensive set of activity-travel environment (ATE) variables, as well as socio-demographic variables, as determinants of individual weekday activity time-use choices. The model system takes the form of a joint mixed Multinomial Logit-Multiple Discrete-Continuous Extreme Value (MNL-MDCEV) structure that (a) accommodates differential sensitivity to the ATE attributes due to both observed and unobserved individual-related attributes, and (b) controls for the self-selection of individuals into neighborhoods due to both observed and unobserved individual-related factors. The joint model system is estimated on a sample of 2793 households and individuals residing in Alameda County in the San Francisco Bay Area. The model results indicate the significant presence of residential self-selection effects due to both observed and unobserved individual-related factors. For instance, individuals from households with more bicycles are associated with a higher preference for out-of-home physically active pure recreational travel pursuits (such as bicycling around in the neighborhood). These same individuals locate into neighborhoods with good bicycling facilities. This leads to a non-causal association between individuals' time investment in out-of-home physically active pure recreational travel and bicycling facilities in their residential neighborhoods. Thus, ignoring the effect of bicycle ownership in the time-use model, would lead to an inflated estimate of the effect of bicycling facility density on the time invested in physically active pure recreational travel. Similarly, there are significant unobserved individual factors that lead to a high preference for physically active recreational activities and also make individuals locate in areas with good bicycling facilities. When such unobserved factors were controlled by the proposed joint residential location and time-use model, the impact of bicycling facility density on out-of-home physically active recreational activities ceased to be statistically significant (from being statistically significant in the independent time-use model). These results highlight the need to control for residential self-selection effects when estimating the effects of the activity-travel environment on activity time-use choices."] ['The allocation of combinations of attribute levels to choice situations in stated choice (SC) experiments can have a significant influence upon the resulting study outputs once data is collected. Recently, a small but growing stream of research has looked at using what have become known as efficient SC experimental designs to allocate the attribute levels to choice situations in a manner designed to produce better model outcomes. This research stream has shown that the use of efficient SC designs can lead to improvements in the reliability of parameter estimates derived from discrete choice models estimated on SC data for a given sample size. Unlike orthogonal designs, however, efficient SC experiments are generated in such a manner that their efficiency is related to the econometric model that is most likely to be estimated once the choice data is collected. To date, most of the research on efficient SC designs has assumed an MNL model format. In this paper, we generate efficient SC experiments for Nested logit models and compare and contrast these with designs specifically generated assuming an MNL model form. We find that the overall efficiency of the design is maximized only when the model assumed in generating the design is the model that is fitted during estimation.'] ['There is a growing interest in seeking out rules that individuals invoke when processing information in choice experiments. A rule that is attracting attention in stated choice studies is the extent to which respondents attend to or ignore one or more attributes in processing the information on offer. A model specification method is implemented in the context of a stated choice data set where car drivers choose between tolled and non-tolled routes. The evidence into a willingness to pay (WTP) for travel time savings is obtained, and contrasted with the results from the traditional full preservation model. The evidence suggests that the WTP is sufficiently different and higher, on average.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["  A primary motivation of this paper is to draw together, in one source, information on the nature, extent and performance of Australia's evolving toll road network which is currently spread across many disparate published and unpublished sources. This paper provides key information (e.g. length, toll rates, year opened, operator(s) and payment alternatives) on all of the fully interoperable toll roads in Australia that are present in Sydney (e.g. the M2, M4, M5, etc.), Melbourne (CityLink and EastLink) and Brisbane (the Gateway Bridge, the Logan Motorway and the Gateway Extension). Where available, we compare and discuss actual traffic levels and forecasts, revealing the sizeable gap or \xe2\x80\x98error\xe2\x80\x99 in forecasts, especially during the first year of operation. Ordinary least squares regression and panel random effects regression models are developed to identify potential sources of explanation of differences in error forecasts between the Australian toll roads at various points post the opening date. A separate analysis of a sample of toll roads in the USA was also undertaken that supports the main findings from the Australian toll road network. Key influences on errors in forecasts are the capacity of a toll road, the elapsed time that the toll road has been in place, the specific period of time in which a tolled road is introduced into the network (which influences the complexity of route options including multiple tolled routes and hence toll saturation), the length of the tolled route, the presence of cash payment and the charging regime (i.e. fixed vs. distance\xe2\x80\x90based or variable user tolls)."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Non-market effects of agriculture are often estimated using discrete choice models from stated preference surveys. In this context we propose two ways of modelling attribute non-attendance. The first involves constraining coefficients to zero in a latent class framework, whereas the second is based on stochastic attribute selection and grounded in Bayesian estimation. Their implications are explored in the context of a stated preference survey designed to value landscapes in Ireland. Taking account of attribute non-attendance with these data improves fit and tends to involve two attributes one of which is likely to be cost, thereby leading to substantive changes in derived welfare estimates. Oxford University Press and Foundation for the European Review of Agricultural Economics 2009; all rights reserved. For permissions, please email journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org, Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["There is a growing body of theoretical and empirical evidence to support the promotion of awarding mechanisms with formal and informal devices, aimed at economic efficiency and effectiveness through the life of the contract, i.e., ex ante and ex post coordination. Building on growing arguments to support negotiations instead of auctions, Bajari et al. [Bajari, P., McMillan, R., Tadelis, S., 2002. Auctions versus Negotiations in Procurement: An Empirical Analysis, Department of Economics, Stanford University, October] suggest that auctions perform poorly when projects are complex and contractual design is incomplete. Areawide contracts in bus and rail appear to fit this circumstance, in contrast to somewhat simple and relatively unambiguous bus route contracts. This literature argues theoretically and empirically that auctions (i.e., competitive tendering) can stifle communication between buyers (i.e., the regulator) and sellers (i.e., the service provider), preventing the buyer from utilising the contractor's expertise when designing the project. A growing number of authors promote the case for greater emphasis on establishing a credible regulatory scheme able to govern the procurement of public services ex post, and that focusing on introducing market mechanisms via competitive tendering per se does not guarantee better value for money. Implicit in the arguments is the need to develop trusting partnerships and (incomplete) commercial contracts with unambiguous incentive and penalty structures throughout the life of a contract, with market mechanisms such as competitive tendering always present as a way forward when operators fail to comply under reasonable notice. This paper develops these themes as a way of gaining a better understanding of negotiated performance-based contracts."] [' There is a renewed interest in the development of behavioural models designed to identify the major determinants of household vehicle purchase. This is due, in part, to the growing interest in the economic viability of the automobile industry, rising fuel costs and increasing enhanced greenhouse gas emissions. The focus of all known research activity is on establishing the preferences for specific vehicle attributes from a single member of a household, almost oblivious to a recognised position that automobile purchase choices are commonly made by more than one decision maker. In this paper we briefly review the state of the art in vehicle purchase decision models, and set out a framework for interactive agency review and assessment of alternatives in the context of two agents negotiating the purchase of an automobile. We estimate a sequence of mixed logit models to illustrate how the method is implemented to accommodate the role of each agent. \xc2\xa9 2008 LSE and the University of Bath'] ['Individuals when faced with choices amongst a number of alternatives often adopt a variety of processing rules, ranging from simple linear to complex non-linear treatment of each attribute defining the offer of each alternative. In this paper we investigate the presence of asymmetry in preferences to test for reference effects and differential willingness to pay according to whether we are valuing gains or losses. The findings offer clear evidence of an asymmetrical response to increases and decreases in attributes when compared to the corresponding values for a reference alternative, where the degree of asymmetry varies across attributes and population segments.'] ['This paper examines various design strategies that might be employed to construct statistically more efficient stated choice designs in the presence of a reference alternative in a choice set. Using data collected in Sydney in 2004 in the context of trading time and cost attributes associated with alternative tolled and non-tolled routes to drive a car to work, we contrast D-efficient designs (based on a number of ways of pivoting attribute levels around a reference alternative) with the more traditional orthogonal designs and conclude that D-efficiency design strategies produce significantly improved results, in a statistical sense of relative efficiency, than the more traditional orthogonal design. Furthermore, the increased use of computer aided personal survey instruments and internet-based surveys enables researchers to structure the experiments around the very specific experiences of each sampled respondent, adding relevance and comprehendability to the attribute levels being assessed in contrast to other averaging methods to construct reference alternatives.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Choice behaviour studies typically assume passive bounded rationality, suggesting that decision makers process all information given to them with equal attention. However, it is probable that decision makers invoke any number of attribute processing strategies (APSs) when weighing the characteristics of candidate alternatives against one another. Utilising data from a study of urban road freight stakeholders evaluating alternative packages of component trip times, fuel costs and variable user charges, this paper shows that accounting for APS heterogeneity associate with each alternative in each choice set results in differing marginal disutilities and willingness to pay for components of travel time, compared to a model which assumes passive bounded rationality.'] ['The Thredbo Conference series has developed the idea of negotiated performance-based contracts as effective public transport service delivery mechanisms, with trusting partnerships between authority and operators providing an environment likely to maximise the performance of this delivery mode. However, there is a distinct lack of relevant case study material on trusting partnerships in public transport to affirm this proposition. This paper seeks to redress the balance. It outlines the system development directions that are being implemented for bus services in Melbourne, Australia, and the way that a broad-based constituency has been built to support those directions. It then illustrates the extension of the tactical trusting partnership approach between purchaser and provider to the level of the individual operator contract, showing how this should create a flexible yet disciplined environment to manage and cope with change and growth. The broad nature of the new contracts is summarised and, building on the findings from Thredbo 9, processes that are being implemented to manage the on-going relationship between purchaser and providers are outlined. Finally, the paper argues for extending KPIs beyond the operator to encompass the authority/regulator and the partnership of authority/operator, to extend performance pressures beyond the operator and recognise the interdependence of partners in a true partnership.'] ["A game theoretic model, integrated with passenger's international choice behavior, for the competition between international airlines is developed and used to identify the role of competing service quality. The empirical evidence suggests that safety, convenience and service quality have a major influence on the choice decision of air passengers. Passengers respond strongly to decreases in price, increased safety, service comprehensiveness and increases in convenience. In a Cournot model, airlines are predicted to increase service quality, with China Airlines, a dominant carrier, the winner on safety and service quality. Foreign companies are beneficiaries in providing convenient service quality. In a Stakelberg model, all the airlines will increase safety and diversify service quality to a reference point. Foreign airlines will additionally be winners in safety and convenience, and China Airlines will be a winner in diversifying service quality. This research can be used to assist airline companies in identifying the role of quality of service in the aviation market as a whole, adding competitive advantage to their business."] ['There is an extensive and continually growing body of empirical evidence on the sensitivity of potential and actual users of public transport to fare and service levels. The sources of the evidence are disparate in terms of methods, data collection strategy, data paradigms, trip purpose, location, time period, and attribute definition. In this paper, we draw on a data set we have been compiling since 2003 that contains over 1100 elasticity items associated with prices and services of public transport, and car modes. The focus herein is on direct elasticities associated with public transport choice and demand, and the systematic sources of influence on the variations in the mean estimates for fares, in-vehicle time, and headway obtained from 319 studies. The major influences on variations in mean estimates of public transport elasticities are the time of day (peak, all day vs. off-peak), the data paradigm (especially combined SP/RP vs. revealed preference (RP)), whether an average fare or class of tickets is included, the unit of analysis (trips vs. vkm), specific trip purposes, country, and specific-mode (i.e., bus and train) in contrast to the generic class of public transport.'] ["Studies that develop estimates of the value of travel time savings (VTTS) for car travel typically assume that the VTTS of the driver is the only relevant measure of the worth of time savings. Although there is a recognition that the presence of passenger's may condition the driver's choice of route and VTTS, the evidence is somewhat limited on the impact that the number of passengers has on the driver's VTTS. This is especially problematic when evaluating the role that policy instruments such as HOV lanes might play in delivering travel time savings for a specific occupancy, as well as the growing opportunities to have differentiated congestion charges and tolls according to occupancy. This paper investigates the role that the presence of the passenger plays in the VTTS of the non-commuting car driver. We find that the overall mean VTTS varies across the number of passengers (from $19.99 to $13.22 per person hour), declining as the number of passengers increases; however this is largely attributable to the decreasing mean VTTS for slowed down time in contrast to a 'flat' mean free flow time. The implications on travel time benefits ignored (through simple averaging) in previous studies, especially tollroad studies, and hence the impact on infrastructure justification, is potentially profound, given the important role played by VTTS and its variation over the number of passengers."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper replaces the nested logit [`]trick' used in estimation of a modal choice model, when stated preference (SP) and revealed preference (RP) data are pooled, with an error component mixed logit model that can (i) relax the IID condition attached to subsets of alternatives in nested logit models, (ii) accommodate correlated observations, and (iii) reveal the relevant scale parameter for subsets of alternatives. Such a model can also incorporate state dependence between data types and preference heterogeneity on observed attributes. An example of choice among bus, train and car modes illustrates the difference in empirical evidence, especially elasticity outputs."] [' There is a growing recognition that the study of discrete choice outcomes should take into account the process rules that are used to establish eligibility of each attribute. This paper proposes a joint process-outcome model in which the choices made are conditioned on the rules adopted by each respondent in assessing the attributes packaged in the definition of each alternative. We set out a joint model and estimate two sets of panel-based mixed logit models - one set in which we ignore the attribute processing rules and one set in which we explicitly account for the rules. Using data from a commuter car trip study of unlabelled packages of times and cost attributes, we identify willingness to pay distributions for travel time savings under the various process rules. The main finding is that failing to account for the process rules tends to result in statistically higher mean estimates of values of travel time savings. \xc2\xa9 2008 LSE and the University of Bath'] [' Stated choice experiments have proven to be a powerful tool in eliciting preferences across a broad range of choice settings. This paper outlines the elements of a group-based experiment designed for interdependent urban freight stakeholders, along with the procedure to administer the questionnaire sequentially. The focus is on the design of a computer-assisted personal survey instrument and the value in disseminating the details of a new approach to design and collect stated choice data for interacting agents. The paper also discusses how to specify a reference alternative, and then how to recruit appropriate real-market or representative decision-making group members to participate in a subsequent phase of the survey, which incorporates the reference alternative and contextual information from an initial phase. The empirical strategy, set out in some detail, provides a new framework within which to understand more fully the role that specific attributes, such as variable user charges, influencing freight distribution chains might play, and who in the supply chain is affected by specific attributes in terms of willingness to pay for the gains in distribution efficiency. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2007'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper introduces a four-state failure model to depict a wider range of distress scenarios that public companies typically face in the real world. We use a multinomial error component logit model to analyse firm failure, a major advance on the modelling techniques used in previous research. The error component logit model, being an extension of the more familiar mixed logit model, relaxes several questionable statistical assumptions associated with standard models. Using a sample of Australian firms we provide an interpretative illustration of the error component logit model and contrast its behavioural performance with the standard logit model widely used in previous research. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2007 The Economic Society of Australia.'] [' Econometric models involving a discrete outcome dependent variable abound in the finance and accounting literatures. However, much of the literature to date utilises a basic or standard logit model. Capitalising on recent developments in the discrete choice literature, we examine three advanced (or non-IID) logit models, namely: nested logit, mixed logit and latent class MNL. Using an illustration from corporate takeovers research, we compare the explanatory and predictive performance of each class of advanced model relative to the standard model. We find that in all cases the more advanced logit model structures, which correct for the highly restrictive IID and IIA conditions, provide significantly greater explanatory power than standard logit. Mixed logit and latent class MNL models exhibited the highest overall predictive accuracy on a holdout sample, while the standard logit model performed the worst. Moreover, the analysis of marginal effects of all models indicates that use of advanced models can lead to more insightful and behaviourally meaningful interpretations of the role and influence of explanatory variables and parameter estimates in model estimation. The results of this paper have implications for the use of more optimal logit structures in future research and practice. Copyright 2007 The Authors Journal compilation (c) 2007 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] ["In designing an approach to parameterise the preferences of agents in a distribution chain for retail goods, Hensher and Puckett [Hensher, D.A., Puckett, S.M., 2007. Theoretical and conceptual frameworks for studying agent interaction and choice revelation in transportation studies. International Journal of Transport Economics XXXIV (1), 17-47] set out a general framework in which two or more agents negotiate a contractual arrangement to provide distribution services. In developing a framework to guide the empirical study, recognition of the difficulty in sourcing agent pairs is a major challenge and one that entails some amount of practical compromise. In this paper we present a new conceptual framework capable of capturing, through ideas of concession and power, without explicit interaction between agents, the interactive element of choice and show how we implement this to deliver an empirical method that is tractable in terms of securing an adequate sample as well as being cost effective. We find that transporters appear to hold strong relative power with respect to on-time reliability and variable charges, regardless of the degree of concession offered by either type of decision maker; whereas shippers' preferences appear to dominate the supply chain response to policy measures influencing transit time. Importantly both transporters and shippers do have a significant role to play in the formation of distribution chain preferences."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Growing public transport patronage in the presence of a strong demand for car ownership and use remains a high agenda challenge for many developed and developing economies. While some countries are losing public transport modal share, other nations are gearing up for a loss, as the wealth profile makes the car a more affordable means of transport as well as conferring elements of status and imagery of "success". Some countries however have begun successfully to reverse the decline in market share, primarily through infrastructure-based investment in bus systems, commonly referred to as bus rapid transit (BRT). BRT gives affordable public transport greater visibility and independence from other modes of transport, enabling it to deliver levels of service that compete sufficiently well with the car to attract and retain a market segmented clientele. BRT is growing in popularity throughout the world, notably in Asia, Europe and South America, in contrast to other forms of mass transit (such as light and heavy rail). This is in large measure due to its value for money, service capacity, affordability, relative flexibility, and network coverage. This paper takes stock of its performance and success as an attractive system supporting the ideals of sustainable transport.'] ['  This paper documents some thoughts on the reform agenda in public transit that is occurring throughout the world. The specific focus is on a growing commitment to competitive regulation through competitive tendering, and the efforts by a few governments (notably in Australia) to take control of the tangible assets used by private operators as a mechanism to exercise the opportunity, if so taken, to put services out to competitive tender. The paper reviews the theoretical arguments and empirical evidence on contracting regimes and asset ownership, and the role that government and the operator might play in a setting in which building trusting and collaborative partnerships has merit in delivering services that are in the main funded from the public purse.'] ['  Congestion charging has become a high\xe2\x80\x90agenda theme in many urban environments, with a growing recognition of a need to commit more effort to establishing the impact that various charging regimes might have in reducing traffic congestion and, as a corollary, in raising revenue that can be used to re\xe2\x80\x90invest to improve transport infrastructure in general and public transport services in particular. In addition to the political commitment, a major challenge being faced is behavioural\xe2\x80\x94a need to understand more fully the role that specific charging regimes might play. The paper investigates the potential influence of variable user charges in the freight distribution chain. A choice\xe2\x80\x90modelling framework is presented that identifies potential responses from the freight transport firm to distance\xe2\x80\x90based charging within the context of the wider spectrum of costs and benefits delivered in terms of travel time savings and increased trip time reliability.'] ["Individuals processing the information in a stated choice experiment are asked to evaluate a set of attributes offered and to choose their most preferred alternative. It has always been thought that some attributes are not attended to in this process for many reasons, including a coping strategy to handle their perception of the complexity of the choice task. However analysts proceed, with rare exception, to estimate discrete choice models as if all attributes have influenced the outcome to some degree. In this paper we investigate the implications of bounding the attribute processing task by attribute elimination through not attending to one or more attributes. Using a sample of car non-commuters in Sydney we estimate a mixed logit model in which all attributes are assumed to be attended to, and models which assume that certain attribute(s) are not attended to, based on supplementary information provided by respondents. The supplementary information is accounted for in a deterministic and a stochastic way; the latter in recognition of the analyst's lack of full information on why a specific attribute processing (AP) strategy was adopted by each sampled individual. We compare the value of travel time savings distribution under alternative attribute processing regimes. As expected, there are noticeable variations in the mean and standard deviation willingness to pay (WTP) across the three AP strategies."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The French experience in developing policies to reduce car use in metropolitan areas is presented in this paper as an illustration of the lack of recognition of the broader set of criteria on which specific policy frameworks should be judged. One of the major challenges, and often failings of policies focussed on reducing car use, is the lack of a structure that ensures that the downside impacts are not relocated to other parts of a system such that potential gains end up being eroded by the potential losses. We draw on experiences throughout France, as well as case studies in Lyon, to highlight the dark side of French transport policy promoting a switch from car to public transit and non-motorised modes, in terms of financial, equity and environmental outcomes.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Interest at the political level in congestion charging is gaining pace as cities struggle with ways to reduce the effects of growing traffic congestion on the liveability of cities. Despite a long history of promotion of a wide array of travel demand management (TDM) initiatives, very few have had a noticeable impact on the levels of traffic on the road networks of metropolitan areas. TDM success in this context has almost become \'band-aid\' in the absence of a pricing strategy that not only promotes efficient use of the system but also hypothecates revenues to support essential complementary infrastructure and services such as public transport. This paper takes a look at the stream of pricing consciousness that is surfacing around the world. Although very few jurisdictions have implemented congestion charging, or any form of efficient variable car and truck user charging, the winds of change are well in place. The adage "it is not a matter of if but of when" seems to be the prevailing view. Our overview of global trends in positioning the debate and hopefully follow-through commitment to implementation provides a backdrop to papers submitted for this special issue on travel demand management. The predominance of papers on pricing is indicative of the priority that must be given to efficient charging and revenue disbursement.'] ['This paper uses state of the art stated choice designs to parameterise modal choice models for commuting and non-commuting travel futures in the presence of new public transport infrastructure (variations of new heavy rail, light rail and dedicated busway systems). D-optimal choice experiments are developed for a set of labelled modal alternatives in which respondents establish a reference benchmark based on the existing service levels (for access, linehaul and egress trip legs) which is used in a computer aided personal interview instrument to generate future scenarios of service levels for current and prospective new modals options. We show that a fully integrated stated choice experiment provides all the information required to obtain behaviourally relevant parameter estimates (within a nested logit framework) for all but the mode-specific constants (MSCs). The MSCs can be calibrated for the current modes within a network model setting, giving the transport planner an appropriate model for predicting the patronage potential for proposed new public transport infrastructure services. A useful by-product is a new set of behavioural values of travel time savings for access, egress, linehaul and wait times.'] ["Developments in simulation methods, and the computational power that is now available, have enabled open-form discrete choice models such as mixed logit to be estimated with relative ease. The random parameter (RP) form has been used to identify preference heterogeneity, which can be mapped to specific individuals through re-parameterisation of the mean and/or variance of each RP's distribution. However this formulation depends on the selection of random parameters to reveal such heterogeneity, with any residual heterogeneity forced into the constant variance condition of the extreme value type 1 distribution of the classical multinomial logit model. In this paper we enhance the mixed logit model to capture additional alternative-specific unobserved variation not subject to the constant variance condition, which is independent of sources revealed through random parameters. An empirical example is presented to illustrate the additional information obtained from this model."] ['  This paper investigates route choice behaviour on freeways between Taipei and Taichung in Taiwan under the provision of real-time traffic information. Two types of route choice selection rules (the best-route and habitual-route) are analysed using ordered probit models to identify the major influences on freeway travellers\xe2\x80\x99 route choice behaviour. The level of service associated with each route is defined as a generalised cost saving ( GCS ) and specified non-linearly with a threshold inherent to travellers. The marginal (dis)utility thresholds in the \xe2\x80\x98best\xe2\x80\x99 and \xe2\x80\x98habitual\xe2\x80\x99 behaviour models are identified through a goodness-of-fit grid. The results confirm that the thresholds for changing the inertia behaviour of drivers should be larger than the ones for choosing the best routes. In addition, the drivers are more likely to choose either the best or the habitual routes once the GCS are greater than the identified threshold values.'] [' Stated choice (SC) methods are now a widely accepted data paradigm in the study of the choice responses of agents. Their popularity has spawned an industry of applications in fields as diverse as transportation, environmental science, health economics and policy, marketing, political science and econometrics. With rare exception, empirical studies have used a single SC design, in which the numbers of attributes, alternatives, choice sets, attribute levels and ranges have been fixed across the entire design. As a consequence the opportunity to investigate the influence of design dimensionality on behavioural response has been denied. Accumulated wisdom has promoted a large number of positions on what design features are specifically challenging for respondents; and although a number of studies have assessed the influence of subsets of design dimensions, there exists no single study (that we are aware of) that has systematically varied all of the main dimensions of SC experiments. This paper reports some initial findings on what influences, in aggregate, specific design configurations have on the mean willingness to pay for specific attributes using a Design of Designs (DoD) SC experiment in which the \xe2\x80\x98attributes\xe2\x80\x99 of the design are the design dimensions themselves. The design dimensions that are varied are the number of choice sets presented, the number of alternatives in each choice set, the number of attributes per alternative, the number of levels of each attribute and the range of attribute levels. The empirical evidence, using a sample of respondents in Sydney choosing amongst trip attribute bundles for their car commuting trip, suggests that, within the boundaries of design dimensionality investigated, mean estimates of WTP for travel time savings in the aggregate cover a range that is appropriate for reporting a global mean and a set of meaningful values for sensitivity testing in project appraisal and demand prediction. When these aggregated mean estimates are conditioned on all design dimensions we do not find any systematic differences due to specific design dimensions; however when each design dimension is assessed without controlling for the other dimensions we find evidence to support differences in aggregate mean WTP attributable to the number of attributes per alternative and the number of alternatives in a choice set. Copyright Springer 2006'] ["Individual's process the information in stated choice (SC) experiments in many different ways. In order to accommodate decisions rules that are used in processing information, there is good sense in conditioning the parameterisation of stated choice design attributes on these rules. In particular, rules might be invoked to cope with the dimensionality of the SC design. In this paper, we investigate the impact of rules such as attribute aggregation and reference dependency on preference profiles for specific design attributes, as well as the design specification, as we vary the dimensionality of an SC design. The heteroscedastic extreme value logit model is estimated to identify the role of design dimensionality and attribute processing rules, after accounting for scale differences across sixteen pooled data designs The empirical evidence, drawn from a study in Sydney of car commuter route choice, suggests that accounting for the way that stated choice designs are processed, given their dimensionality, does make a statistically significant difference on measures of willingness to pay, as does accounting for scale differences between pooled data designs. This evidence has practical value in guiding the design of SC experiments and in adjusting results from different SC designs when comparing the evidence. We propose a simple adjustment formula to use in adjusting VTTS from different studies so that they are comparable. From a practical policy perspective, the evidence sends a warning about the risk of undervaluing mean VTTS if the attribute processing rules are not accounted for."] ['There is a small but growing literature that promotes the derivation of distributions of willingness-to-pay (WTP) estimates using information specific to each individual observation. These are referred to as individual conditional distributions, in contrast to approaches that rely on unconditional distributions that use random assignment in the construction of WTP distributions within a sampled population. The interest in alternative specifications is in large measure attributed to the search for empirical ways of deriving the WTP distribution that satisfies a behaviourally acceptable sign and range over the entire domain. In this paper we examine both conditional and unconditional approaches to establishing WTP distributions within the context of a mixed logit model. We find that calculating WTP measures from ratios of individual-level parameters in contrast to drawing them from unconditional population distributions empirically reduces the incidence of extreme values. Our results suggest that although problematic estimates cannot be ruled out, the use of the extra information on each individual\xe2\x80\x99s choices is a valuable input into the derivation of WTP distributions.'] ['The growing popularity of mixed logit to obtain estimates of willingness to pay (WTP) has focussed on the distribution of the random parameters and the possibility of estimating deep parameters to account for heterogeneity around the mean of the distribution. However the possibility exists to add further behavioural information associated with the variance of the random parameter distribution, through parameterisation of its heterogeneity (or heteroskedasticity). In this paper we extend the mixed logit model to account for this heterogeneity and illustrate the implications this has on the moments of the willingness to pay for travel time savings in the context of commuter choice of mode. The empirical study highlights the statistical and behavioural gains but warns of the potential downside of exposing the distribution of the parameterised numerator and/or denominator of the more complex WTP function to a sign change and extreme values over the range of the distribution.'] [" This paper studies Canberra households' and businesses' willingness to pay (WTP) to avoid drought water restrictions, using stated choice experiments. We find that customers evidence a lack of WTP to avoid most types of drought-induced restrictions. Respondents appear unwilling to pay to avoid low-level restrictions at all and to avoid higher levels of restrictions that are not in place every day. Given the option of watering on alternative days, customers appear willing to adjust their watering schedules compared with paying higher water bills and appear willing to tolerate high-level restrictions for limited periods each year, compared with higher water bills. Copyright 2006 The Economic Society Of Australia."] [" The popularity of stated choice (SC) experiments has produced many design strategies in which researchers use increasingly more 'complex' choice settings to study choice behaviour. When the amount of information to assess increases, we wonder how an individual handles such information in making a choice. Defining the amount of information as the number of attributes associated with each choice set, we investigate how this information is processed as we vary its 'complexity'. Four ordered heterogeneous logit models are developed, each for an SC design based on a fixed number of attributes, in which the dependent variable defines the number of attributes that are ignored. We find that the degree to which individuals ignore attributes is influenced by the dimensionality of the SC experiment, the deviation of attribute levels from an experienced reference alternative, the use of 'adding up' attributes where feasible, the number of choice sets evaluated, and the personal income of the respondent. The empirical evidence supports the view that individuals appear to adopt a range of 'coping' strategies that are consistent with how they process information in real markets, and that aligning 'choice complexity' with the amount of information to process is potentially misleading. Relevancy is what matters. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2006 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd."] [' A feature of recent developments in choice models that enable estimation of the distribution of willingness to pay (WTP) is that the sign of the distribution can change over the range. Behaviourally this often makes little sense for attributes such as travel time on non-discretionary travel, despite a growing recognition of positive utility over some travel time ranges. This can in part be attributed to the analytical distribution that is selected (except the cumbersome lognormal), many of which are unconstrained over the full range. Although a number of analysts have imposed constraints on various distributions for random parameters that can satisfy the single-sign condition, these restrictions are, with rare exception, only satisfied for the mean and the standard deviation estimates of a random parameter. When heterogeneity around the mean and/or heteroscedasticity around the standard deviation is allowed for, however, the constraint condition is often not satisfied. Given the popularity of distributions other than the lognormal, in order to satisfy the sign condition under the most general form of parameterisation, we need to impose a global sign condition. In this paper we show how this might be achieved in the context of the valuation of travel time savings for car commuters choosing amongst an offered set of route-specific travel times and costs. We illustrate the impact of the constraint under a globally constrained Rayleigh distribution for total travel time parameterisation, contrasting the evidence with a multinomial logit model and a range of other distributional assumptions within the mixed logit framework. Copyright Springer 2006'] [" We describe recent progress in several areas related to endogeneity, including: choice set formation and attention to attributes; interactions among decision-makers; respondents' strategic behavior in answering stated preference choices; models of multiple discrete/continuous choice; distributions of willingness-to-pay; and methods for handling traditionally endogenous explanatory variables. Copyright Springer Science + Business Media, Inc. 2005"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Charging users of the roads for the costs they impose on the system is not new. Economists have been promoting its virtues for as long as arguments about economic efficiency have been in print. What is different today is that a growing number (but by no means all) of decision makers are showing a greater interest and commitment to finding ways to improve the efficiency of the road system, be it through infrastructure expansion and/or other means. Of special interest are the growing level of traffic congestion, and a feeling of almost helplessness, that we seem to have failed in finding a way forward to maintain traffic congestion at levels that are acceptable to the public, and are consistent with principles of good economic practice. The literature abounds with suggestions on how this might be achieved, focused primarily on various pricing regimes that say as much as about levels of charges as they do about the role of the revenue raised, the latter as controversial as the former. The current state of technology provides a capability to introduce sophisticated charging mechanisms. We are at a stage in the evolution of 'solutions' to dealing with inefficient road use and provision of road funds that offers real prospects of delivering outcomes that can align with political, social and user demands and expectations. This paper provides a global perspective on the road to efficiency, using the UK contributions in the special issue as a backdrop of what can be done. The issues and challenges are sufficiently global to enable the contributions to be of immediate relevance beyond the UK."] ['  Accident externality costs remain controversial in terms of their costing and valuation. Much of the literature on accident and travel delay externalities treats each source as mutually exclusive and additive, yet common sense suggests that interdependencies prevail. One example of this is the recognition that accident externalities are not independent of travel delays, and hence travel time savings and losses are influenced by policy designed to reduce the risk of exposure to accidents. Reduced maximum speed limit restrictions also add costs in terms of loss of travel time (and increased speed limits produce travel time benefits). Also, lowered speed limits may lead to more drivers risking exceeding the speed limit because of perceived time loss, thereby exacerbating the potential for accidents. The paper takes a close look at the empirical relationship between accident and travel delay externalities in an urban setting, accounting for the risk\xe2\x80\x90compensating behaviour under conditions of greater accident risk. Recognizing that levels of risk in an urban setting are broadly a function of traffic densities and that the latter can be approximated by the mix of free flow and non\xe2\x80\x90free flow travel time (for a given total travel time), an aggregate marginal externality cost function is used to quantify empirically the input elements in the context of a driver\xe2\x80\x99s choice between a free and a tolled route in Sydney, Australia. This discrete choice context is sufficient, given an externally established relationship between speed and traffic density, to quantify the marginal externality accident and travel time delay costs. It is shown what additional externality has to be factored into the accident costs to recognize the other sources of externality typically ignored in accident costing and speed restriction studies.'] [' Water consumption and disposal are often taken for granted as essential services with required levels of service quality, yet little is known about how much consumers are willing to pay for specific service levels. As customers in many countries face changing levels of water availability (especially shortages linked possibly to climate change and limited catchment capacity), the need to assess the value (and hence benefit) to society of varying service levels and prices in an effort to secure the provision of and disposal of water has risen on public agendas. In an attempt to establish how much customers are willing to pay for specific levels of service, we use a series of stated choice experiments and mixed logit models to establish the willingness to pay to avoid interruptions in water service and overflows of wastewater, differentiated by the frequency, timing and duration of these events. The empirical evidence is an important input into the regulatory process for establishing service levels and tariffs, as well as useful planning information for agencies charged with finding cost effective ways of delivering services at prices that customers deem to be value for money. Copyright Springer 2005'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Competitive tendering (CT) is a popular mechanism for the provision of transport services where a major objective is the containment of the cost to government of service provision. Although the primary focus is recognised as cost efficiency, whereby the cost outcome should be conditional on a given level of service, difficulties in establishing appropriate tests for service level compliance has become a cause of concern regarding the effectiveness of the CT paradigm as a value for money initiative. This paper reviews the international successes and failures of CT as a subsidy reduction strategy within the bus sector, and promotes the idea of Performance Based Contracts as a way of recognising the real role of subsidy under the umbrella of a value for money objective. \xc2\xa9 2005 LSE and the University of Bath'] ['This paper explores the complexity and cognitive burden associated to stated choice experiments. Complexity is analysed in terms of design dimensions such as the number of available alternatives, the number of attributes used to define these alternatives, the number of levels for those attributes, the range of attribute levels and the number of choice situations presented to each respondent. These design dimensions were systematically varied according to an experimental design in a first design hierarchy; the second hierarchy comprised the attributes of each alternative (travel times and travel cost components). To study the complexity of the experiment we specified a heteroskedastic logit model with the scale parameter specified as a function of the design dimensions. This allowed us to separate the effects of choice complexity from the marginal utility estimates. Our results show that all five design dimensions affect the choice variance, or put it another way, they affect choice consistency. However, we did not find systematic effects on willingness-to-pay estimates.'] ["The entry of low cost airlines has thrown out a challenge to all airlines to find ways of attracting passengers, through a mix of fare discounting, greater frequency, improved flight times and no-frill's levels of on-board service. These competitive strategies have an impact on cost recovery. As airlines seek business in an increasingly heterogeneous passenger market, a greater understanding of what matters to potential passengers in choosing an airline grows in importance. Traditional studies of passenger airline choice assume that all attributes matter, but some to a lesser extent. What happens to the empirical evidence on willingness to pay when specific attributes are totally ignored by particular passengers? In this paper, we examine the impact of individual-specific attribute processing strategies (APS) on the inclusion/exclusion of attributes on the parameter estimates and behavioural outputs of models of airline service and fare level choice. Modelling practice assumes that whilst respondents may exhibit preference heterogeneity, they employ a homogenous APS with regards to how they process the presence/absence of attributes of stated choice (SC) experiments. We demonstrate how information collected exogenous of the SC experiment on whether respondents either ignored or considered each attribute of the SC task may be used in the estimation process, and how such information may be used to provide outputs that are attribute processing strategies segment specific."] ['Reform of the bus sector has been occurring in many countries. One matter central to these reform initiatives is the establishment of a value for money (VM) regime to ensure that operators deliver to the market the best possible service levels consistent with stakeholder needs, and especially with the objectives of government. A key underlying feature of VM is identifying the benefit to society associated with each dollar of subsidy support from government. This paper reviews the elements of a VM regime within the setting of an incentive-based performance contract, and develops a formal framework for establishing optimum subsidy based on system-wide maximisation of social surplus. The maximisation of social surplus is subject to a number of constraints, including the commercial imperative of the operator, minimum service levels under community service obligations (CSO), and a fare and subsidy budget cap. An important feature of the performance-based contract (PBC) regime is a passenger trip-based incentive payment scheme linked to user and externality benefits that incorporates a subsidy per additional passenger trip above the patronage delivered under service and fare levels compliant with CSO. In this way, rewards to operators are revealed through the fare box, through increased consumer surplus and through reductions in negative externalities such as those associated with the use of the car. PBCs can be designed to accommodate both the transition from an existing regime and post-transition growth strategies. The implementation of PBCs is illustrated using data from private operators in the Sydney Metropolitan Area.'] ['There are many empirical studies on the estimation of values of travel time savings (VTTS), with varying degrees of rigour and relevance, mostly based on the observation that travellers are prepared to spend money to save time. These values are applied to both forecasting the effects of speed changes on behaviour and also for estimation of the social benefit of such savings, in order to calculate value for money of spending public funds on transport investments. The sources of empirical information on such values are not always compatible with the models and software within which the results are used. In recent years, an increasingly important application has been to calculate the potential revenue from tolled roads, and networks with user charges, which offer high speeds at a higher price: here the important issue is not hypothetical willingness to pay, but the actual money that will be handed over. This changes the focus from hypothetical to bankable VTTS. It is shown that some common practices risk substantial error in calculation, affecting the sharing of risk between public and private sectors. A particularly important case is where an average value is taken as representative of a skewed distribution of values--in these circumstances there will be a tendency to overestimate the revenue, and underestimate the traffic impact, of a charge, because for a given mean VTTS, there will be a smaller number of individuals who are prepared to pay the toll. To correct this bias, the main tasks are: establishing a relevant set of trip-purpose specific VTTS distributions and selecting a way of handling the distributions in patronage forecasting, growing VTTS through time, treating the VTTS of car passengers, and establishing an appropriate set of rules for converting disaggregated (or heterogeneous) components of travel time values into a single trip value appropriate to the project being evaluated. Other related problems of the use of values of time relate to the assumption that these values grow in proportion to income, and the extent to which they are confounded with other effects. One troublesome feature is that most, and perhaps all, of the problems discussed tend to produce biases in the same direction, namely to risk overestimating revenue, in the short and long run. This produces a tendency to appraisal bias, which can distort the contractual confidence between partners. Overall, it is likely that current assumptions are underestimating the degree of toll-avoiding behaviour, and overestimating the financial viability of projects.'] ["This paper establishes the rationale for a method that recognises the interdependency of choices made by two or more agents, known as interactive agency choice experiments (IACEs), and the behavioural implications of maintaining the assumption of agency exogeneity in discrete choice models. We model the interdependent decision making process using the IACE method to illustrate how to capture information on preferences for members of a decision making group. An empirical study of employee and employer choices of distributive work practices highlights the role that other agents play in influencing the decisions of individual agents. The IACE reveals barriers to agency choice that can be better understood and minimised by each agent having more information on the other agent's preferences and willingness to cooperate that is lacking in the agent-independence modelling framework."] [' This paper explores the influence of the dimensions of stated choice (SC) designs on the value of travel time savings. Utilising principles of experimental design, 16 choice designs are embedded within a global design in which we vary the number of choice sets, the number of alternatives in each choice set, the number of attributes per alternative, the number of levels of each attribute, and the range of attribute levels. A mixed logit model is estimated in which design dimensions are interacted with the attribute parameters to explore the influence of these dimensions on willingness to pay (WTP) for travel time savings. The evidence in the context of a sample of respondents in Sydney choosing amongst trip attribute bundles for their car commuting trip suggests that design dimensionality does influence variations in WTP, with higher overall mean values of travel time savings associated with more complex designs, in terms of the number of items to process. \xc2\xa9 2004 LSE and the University of Bath'] ["In New Zealand as elsewhere, there is an increasing interest in alleviating congestion on the road transport network to improve economic productivity, reduce pollution, and to use the transport network more effectively. Governments enact various policies to encourage car drivers to change their behaviour, but often find that the full impact is not reached. We propose that car drivers have constraints influencing their mode choice for the morning peak period trip (e.g. needing to transport children, needing a car for work during the day). A stated preference experiment conducted in the three largest New Zealand urban areas not only quantifies the likely impact of a wide range of policy tools (both 'sticks' discouraging car use, and 'carrots' encouraging alternative modes) for each area, but also identifies many significant constraints."] ["The multinomial logit model (MNL) has for many years provided the fundamental platform for the analysis of discrete choice. The basic model's several shortcomings, most notably its inherent assumption of independence from irrelevant alternatives have motivated researchers to develop a variety of alternative formulations. The mixed logit model stands as one of the most significant of these extensions. This paper proposes a semi-parametric extension of the MNL, based on the latent class formulation, which resembles the mixed logit model but which relaxes its requirement that the analyst makes specific assumptions about the distributions of parameters across individuals. An application of the model to the choice of long distance travel by three road types (2-lane, 4-lane without a median and 4-lane with a median) by car in New Zealand is used to compare the MNL latent class model with mixed logit."] ['The measurement of service quality continues to be a challenging research theme and one of great practical importance to service providers and regulatory agencies. The key challenges begin with the identification of the set of potentially important dimensions of service quality perceived by passengers, current and potential. We then have to establish a way of measuring each attribute and identifying their relative importance in the overall calculation of satisfaction associated with existing service levels. Once a set of relevant attributes has been identified, this information can be integrated into programs such as monitoring and benchmarking, and even in contract specification. This paper, building on earlier research by the authors, investigates ways of quantifying service quality and comparing the levels within and between bus operators. The importance of establishing suitable market segments and the need to scale the service quality index for each operator to make meaningful comparisons is highlighted.'] ['Populations of post-industrial nations are aging. With a growing number of people living well into their 80s and maintaining active lives, the transportation system will have to start focussing more closely on understanding their mobility and accessibility needs, so as to ensure that specific requirements of this large segment are not being ignored through the promotion of traditional \'solutions\' and historical assumptions. This paper takes a close look at the evidence on the mobility needs and travel patterns of individuals over 64, distinguishing between the "young" elderly (aged 65-75 years) and the "old" elderly (over 75 years). This distinction is particularly useful in recognising the threshold of health change that impacts in a non-marginal way on mobility needs. This distinction also focuses transport planning and policy on a commitment to understanding the different needs of these sub-groups of the population, identifying services and facilities that better cater for these groups. We review the evidence, in particular, on the mobility characteristics of the over 75 years age group, including how they secure support through migration and settlement patterns. We use the empirical evidence from a number of western nations to identify the role of conventional and specialised public transport as an alternative to the automobile in meeting mobility and accessibility needs.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Institutional reform of the bus sector is a topical discussion item in a number of countries at present. A specific focus is on ensuring a value for money (VM) regime to identify the benefits to society associated with each dollar of subsidy support from government. This paper promotes the position that a performance-based contracting (PBC) regime offers the best prospects of achieving a system-wide VM outcome. It proposes a reward system for bus operators that combines payment for delivering a minimum level of service (MSL), that meets government community service obligations, plus an incentive regime that rewards operators for patronage increases (above MSL patronage levels). The patronage incentive is based on expected user and external benefits deriving from service improvements and patronage increases. Cost benchmarking at relevant best practice levels is proposed as essential to ensure remuneration is based on efficient cost levels. The paper argues that a PBC approach is consistent with maximising social surplus from public transport provision across a geographic area, for any given budget constraint and regulatory imposed minimum service levels. The main alternative, competitive tendering (CT), is argued to be less attractive than PBCs in terms of securing the maximum social surplus to the community, given the total amount of subsidy support available, although CT is an appropriate non-compliance condition. This paper is a companion to Hensher and Houghton [Hensher, D.A., Houghton, E., Performance-based contracts for the bus sector: delivering social and commercial value for money, Trans. Res. B, in press] that details the economic framework and an application of PBCs.'] [' Over the past two decades the bus industry in many countries has been involved in a process of economic deregulation, competitive regulation, and privatisation. Among the policy practices designed to increase competition, competitive tendering represents a popular policy intervention. The focus of competitive tendering has been essentially on cost efficiency and cost effectiveness; regulators have hitherto been unsuccessful in developing a robust specification of service quality levels. In this paper the authors propose a method of filling in a missing link in the specification of contract performance-service effectiveness-which measures the (generalised) effectiveness of a service in satisfying passengers across a set of relevant dimensions that capture customer satisfaction. \xc2\xa9 The London School of Economics and the University of Bath 2002'] ["The nested logit model is currently the preferred extension to the simple multinomial logit (MNL) discrete choice model. The appeal of the nested logit model is its ability to accommodate differential degrees of interdependence (i.e., similarity) between subsets of alternatives in a choice set. The received literature displays a frequent lack of attention to the very precise form that a nested logit model must take to ensure that the resulting model is invariant to normalisation of scale and is consistent with utility maximisation. Some recent papers by F.S. Koppelman, C.H. Wen [Transp. Res. B 32 (5) (1998a) 289; Transp. Res. Record 1645 (1998b) 1] and G.L. Hunt [Nested logit models with partial degeneracy, Department of Economics, University of Maine, December 1998 (revised)] have addressed some aspects of this issue, but some important points remain somewhat ambiguous. When utility function parameters have different implicit scales, imposing equality restrictions on common attributes associated with different alternatives (i.e., making them generic) can distort these differences in scale. Model scale parameters are then 'forced' to take up the real differences that should be handled via the utility function parameters. With many variations in model specification appearing in the literature, comparisons become difficult, if not impossible, without clear statements of the precise form of the nested logit model. There are a number of approaches to achieving this, with some or all of them available as options in commercially available software packages. This article seeks to clarify the issue, and to establish the points of similarity and dissimilarity of the different formulations that appear in the literature."] [' This paper presents an integrated urbanpassenger transport model system for evaluatingthe impact of a large number of interrelatedpolicy instruments on urban travel behaviourand the environment. The model system has fourintegrated modules defining household locationand automobile choices, commuter workplace andcommuting travel choices, non-commuting travelactivity, and worker distributed workpractices. The demand model system, estimatedas a set of discrete and continuous choicemodels, is combined with a set of equilibratingcriteria in each of the location, automobileand commuting markets to predict overall demandfor passenger travel in various socio-economicsegments, automobile classes and geographiclocations. We illustrate the diversity of thesystem by applying the integrated system toPerth (Western Australia), in the context ofassessing their impacts on greenhouse gasemissions. The model system is embedded withina decision support system to make it anattractive suite of tools for practitioners. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 2002'] [" The Sydney Olympics held in September 2000 provided an opportunity to monitor the planning of transport provision for the world's greatest sporting spectacular. As the single largest major event, the pressures on a city's transport system are enormous, as witnessed by the previous Games in Atlanta and Barcelona. This paper takes a value-chain approach to assess transport performance as a crucial element in the delivery of the Sydney Olympic Games. We begin with a brief overview of strategic value, highlighting some generic aspects of value chains followed by the transport delivery system that came to the fore as significant 'drivers' in the value chain. This is followed by a summary of the effectiveness of the buses, trains, taxis, roads and the airport. A more detailed look is provided of the private bus sector where the problems leading up the opening of the Games received a great deal of media attention. The paper concludes with two stories, one good, one not so good, about transport and the Olympic Games."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This is the fourth time that Transport Reviews has published a summary of the workshop sessions from the Thredbo Conference. The intention is to disseminate more widely the main findings and conclusions from these sessions at this important international conference. Interested readers are also encouraged to view the full papers presented at the Institute of Transport Studies, University of Sydney website.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['This study investigates the implications on passenger flows of a regional airline adding a hub to its existing network. The very specific application focuses on a hub addition at Canberra International Airport (Australia) by Hazelton Airlines, although the approach is sufficiently general to implement for other hubs and regional airlines.'] ['Stated choice (SC) experiments are increasingly adopted as the empirical source of information on how individuals respond to current and potential travel contexts. The accumulated experience with SC data has been heavily conditioned on analyst prejudices about the acceptable complexity of the data collection instrument, especially the number of profiles (or treatments) given to each sampled individual (and the number of attributes and alternatives to be processed). It is not uncommon for analysts to impose very stringent limitations on the complexity of an SC experiment. A review of the literature suggests that very little is known about the basis for rejecting complex designs or accepting simple designs. In this paper, we develop a complex design as the basis for an SC study, producing a fractional factorial of 32 rows. However, we then truncate the fraction by administering 4, 8, 16, 24 and 32 profiles to a sample of individuals in Australia and New Zealand faced with the decision to fly (or not to fly) between Australia and New Zealand by alternative airlines and fare regimes. Statistical comparisons of elasticities (an appropriate behavioural basis for comparisons) suggest that the empirical gains within the context of a linear specification of the utility expression associated with each alternative in a discrete choice model may be quite marginal.'] ['This paper investigates the role of parking pricing and supply by time of day in whether to drive and park in the central business district (CBD). A stated preference survey of car drivers and public transport users was undertaken at a number of parking locations, public transit interchanges, and shopping centres in Sydney CBD during 1998. In the context of a current trip to the CBD, respondents were asked to consider six alternatives, including three parking locations in the CBD, park outside of the CBD with public transport connection to the CBD, switch to public transport, or forego that trip to the CBD. The three parking locations were defined by hours of operation, a tariff schedule, and access time to the final destination from the parking station. Data from the survey were then used to estimate a nested logit model of mode and parking choices, which was then used to simulate the impacts of supply pricing scenarios on CBD parking share. The change in CBD parking share attributable to supply by time of day is less than 3%, compared to 97% attributable to parking prices.'] ['This paper examines the development process of a Freight Strategy in which stakeholder and action learning theories are used to procure collaborative inputs from key players involved in the Freight Services industry. We review the positions presented by key stakeholders within a workshop setting. With a focus on a broad based discussion from stakeholders, the collaborative learning process sought some very specific directions at a strategic level to assist NSW transport agencies in the development of its Freight Strategy 2010.'] [" The value of travel time savings (VTTS) is a critical parameter in transport project appraisal and through its application produces the dominating user benefit, typically 60 per cent of traditionally quantified user benefits. Beesley's work in the 1960s laid the foundation for much of the subsequent applied research, especially in respect of measurement and interpretation. This paper revisits Beesley's contribution in the context of the 1960s and shows the subsequent development of his ideas. \xc2\xa9 The London School of Economics and the University of Bath 2001"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Research in the field of artificial intelligence systems has been exploring the use of artificial neural networks (ANN) as a framework within which many traffic and transport problems can be studied. One appeal of ANN is their use of pattern association and error correction to represent a problem. This contrasts with the random utility maximisation rule in discrete choice modelling. ANN enables a full set of human perceptions about a particular problem to be represented by artificial networks of neurons. A claim of ANN is that it can tackle the problem of travel demand forecasting and modelling as well if not better than the discrete choice approach. The use of such tools in studying individual traveller behaviour thus opens up an opportunity to consider the extent to which there are representation frameworks which complement or replace discrete choice methods. This paper explores the merits of neural networks by comparing the predictive capability of ANN and nested logit models in the context of commuter mode choice.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The government sector is increasingly using competitive bidding for service deliveries such as the provision of bus and rail services as well as the purchasing of professional engineering services such as project planning, design, and project supervision. As part of a program to simplify and introduce consistency in the tender evaluation process, one government transport agency in New Zealand financed a study to investigate the potential of combined revealed and stated preference methods as a way of establishing weights to attach to the criteria used to evaluate offers of engineering services. These techniques have mainly been used in the study of travel choices; yet they have a much broader appeal in studying the decision making process of organisations. In this paper we use a data-mixing model to capture the decision expertise of a transport organisation through the revelation of preference weights for each evaluation criterion. Using choice information based on both market-driven and experimentally derived choice sets, we should be able to increase the robustness of the evaluation weights in comparison to the weights obtained from single data-sourced models. The resulting parameterised tool can be used in subsequent tender evaluations to provide an additional source of advice to supplement or replace that provided by current members of a bid evaluation team.'] ['The international and political bargaining process in the aviation sector is heavily influenced by the views of stakeholders, especially regulators, airlines and airport authorities. These views are diverse and often complex to synthesise. We use the method of non-linear canonical correlation to analyse the views of ASEAN officials sampled from aviation authorities, airline executives, airport executives, industry coordinators, air transport consultants, and international organisations in a systematic way so as to reveal the primary positions of vested interests. In doing so we have a very powerful policy tool for qualitatively predicting likely future organisational responses to initiatives in the reform of the aviation sector such as liberalisation and strategic alliances.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper develops a framework within which multiple agents make discrete choices in respect of a common objective \xe2\x80\x93 the determination of participation in distributed work, especially the opportunities and constraints associated with telecommuting. Ideas in discrete choice theory and game theory are combined to define a set of choice experiments in which employees and employers interact in arriving at a choice path in a distributed work context. A state choice experiment with offers and feedback, known as an interactive agency choice experiment (IACE), is empirically investigated in the context of telecommuting options with an exploratory sample of employees and employers in Sydney, Australia. The approach highlights the role of information and negotiation in breaking down the barriers to more flexible work activity, to deliver potential benefits to the transport system such as reduced traffic congestion and environmental sustainability. The paper identifies the types of incentives that an employee/er has to offer the employer/employee in securing effective telecommuting. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 2000'] ['An efficient and effective freight transport strategy can be aided by early professional contributions from key stakeholders. One broad group who have historically been given limited opportunity to influence the drafting of a freight strategy, are commercial road users and shippers who manufacture and distribute goods. Utilising a data set collected in Australia in 1996 from a sample of organisations involved directly and indirectly in road freight transportation, views were sought on road infrastructure changes, new road infrastructure, non-road infrastructure needs and transport policies. An optimal scaling approach using non-linear canonical correlation is implemented to search for structural relationships between the underlying policy and infrastructure dimensions and the various industry categories. This framework provides a powerful mechanism for identifying differences among stakeholders in terms of their support for or opposition to specific policies. Results reveal the considerable differences in attitudes associated with the component parts of the freight industry.'] ['Travel price and time elasticities are increasingly being derived from discrete choice models of the multinomial or nested logit form. These elasticities are then applied to obtain predictions of changes in travel demand consequent on a policy change in prices and travel times. The majority of the choice elasticities are estimated within the behavioural setting of modal choice, holding total travel fixed. A few mode choice models have recently relaxed the multinomial logit model assumption of equal variance in all the random components of the indirect utility function to permit unconstrained variances across all alternatives (subject to identification for one alternative). This enables the derivation of behaviourally meaningful and unique cross choice elasticities for each pair of alternatives. Under constant variance, only the direct choice elasticities have behavioural meaning. While this is an important advance in discrete choice modelling, the derivation of share elasticities is conditional on a fixed total demand, and the procedure cannot be relied on to carry through two important properties of the model into the demand elasticity matrix--namely symmetry and zero share weighted column sums. This paper takes a set of empirically derived choice elasticities and presents a second stage procedure to adjust these elasticities to arrive at an internally consistent matrix of demand elasticities. We draw on a recent data set collected in Sydney which utilises revealed preference and stated choice data to estimate a joint model of ticket choice conditional on mode and choice of mode for commuter travel.'] ['Public transport in urban Australia is dominated by the automobile. As we approach the end of the 20th century, there is much renewed interest in revitalising urban public transport as one way of combating the increasing levels of traffic congestion, deterioration in air quality and global warming. This paper takes stock of the situation in Australia, identifying the challenges that the urban public transport sector faces in redressing the imbalance between car and public transport market share. Particular emphasis is given to the role of buses and busways in contrast to rail, and strategies to reduce the attractiveness of the car.'] ['With the implementation of the 1990 Passenger Transport Act in New South Wales, Australia, the urban bus industry moved from a rigid system of licensing towards performance-based contracts. The new focus, arising out of the legislation centred on the quality of service delivery, presented challenges for management in motivating its staff to comply with the new ideals of serving passengers. To date, little attention has been paid to the effects of organisational change on the role of middle management, a key player in the transport sector. While the current perception may be that the position of middle manager has been eroded due to the wide-scale downsizing of middle management ranks across many industries, it is contended that the role of the middle manager is reaffirmed particularly during organisational change. This paper identifies the interaction of perceived satisfaction with the outcomes of change, organisational commitment and structure. When change is thrust upon organisations, the commitment of the middle manager is vital.'] ['The focus of this study was the Board of Airline Representatives of Australia (BARA), a voluntary, non-profit organisation, established as an incorporated body in 1989, (although operating unofficially in previous years) to afford a recognised means of communication between the airlines and relevant statutory and other bodies in Australia, whose interests and actions influence those of the airlines. BARA is an industry organisation who monitors, evaluates and petitions other agencies in the airline industry for the benefit of its membership in regard to airport regulations, agreements and charges, aviation infrastructure, safety and security, the processing of airline customers, and industrial relations. The interrelationship between effective membership and organisational strategy has significant ramifications for the success of Boards of Airline Representatives elsewhere in the world and for umbrella organisations such as the International Air Transport Association (IATA). The conceptual framework presented in the paper uses theory underlying strategic intent and incentives for voluntary membership in industry organisations as well as membership participation. A stated choice experiment embedded within a self-administered survey was used to clarify the strategic direction of BARA; investigate incentives used to retain membership in the context where non-members benefit from its activities, and ascertain choices that members make in relation to their participation.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['There is an increasing trend towards corporatisation and privatisation of airports in an effort to improve performance. However, the normal financial reporting requirements associated with these forms of organisation are not sufficient indicators of the performance of airports since profitability can be more a function of the exercise of market power than a sign of productive efficiency. Also, there are concerns that efforts to regulate the prices charged by airports can result in under-investment and declining service standards. This makes it important to monitor the cost-efficiency, cost-effectiveness and service-effectiveness of airports. There is a growing literature on these topics, but so far there has been little attempt to apply the concepts of total factor productivity to the airport sector. We use a non-parametric index number method to illustrate how such a global measure can be used to investigate the role of disaggregated performance measures that often are very useful to managers and to those monitoring airport operations.'] ['This paper presents the methodology and selective empirical results from a study of the demand for a high speed rail system serving the Sydney-Canberra corridor currently dominated by air travel for business trips and car travel for non-business trips. We outline the steps involved in the study from problem specification, data needs, development of base year trip tables, model specification and estimation to establish switching behaviour in the presence of a new mode and calculation of induced demand for current travellers. A stated choice heteroskedastic extreme value switching model is used to evaluate the choice of fare type for business and non-business travel given the current mode used in the corridor for each sampled traveller conventional train, charter coach, scheduled coach, plane or car. Starting with the current travel profile, patronage can be predicted under alternative fare regimes, taking into account diverted traffic, induced traffic and growth. Treating fare class as endogenous enhances the real choice context facing potential patrons.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper investigates the relative performance of urban bus operators in Australia. An index of gross total factor productivity (GTFP) for each operator is developed and decomposed to identify the sources of variation across operators, such as the role of different institutional and regulatory 'constraints' on relative performance. Data has been compiled from a sample of private bus operations in Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne and all of the public operators in Australia for the financial year 1991/92. The emphasis is on the cost efficiency and cost effectiveness of private and public urban bus operators in Australia."] ['This paper examines the impact of the subscription-calling rate structure on the demand for residential telephone network subscription and calling. Stated-preference experimental data are used to estimate demand equations. The results indicate that household network subscription and calling demands for the Sydney Metropolitan Area are affected by both rate structure and household socio-demographic variables.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ["This paper discusses a number of initiatives undertaken in Australia to improve the efficiency of the transport sector, long recognized as one of the most inefficient links in the economic cycle of production, distribution and consumption. We use examples of practice in government trading enterprises (rail, bus, ports, airports), as well as private sector benchmarks (private bus and trucking). The paper also outlines some of the topical issues such as the 'blind' commitment to light rail, road-user charges, safety and truck driving hours, and the future of our cities."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Performance measurement in the public sector is recognized as important for tracking progress. The selection of indicators of performance is somewhat arbitrary and is made difficult by the absence of any benchmarks for screening to establish a systematic link with the overall measurement of performance. In this paper we promote the idea of establishing a reference benchmark index in the guise of an index of total factor productivity growth. The index is used to provide a mapping between itself and a number of operational indicators as a way of assisting organizations in implementing change that is compatible with improvements in overall productivity. The paper questions the wisdom of using an exogenously specified demand-side measure of output and proposes a procedure in which an exogenous supply-side measure of output is linked to an endogenous demand-side measure of output. The empirical study draws on 7 years of data from the eight public bus operators in Australia to highlight the value of the approach.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The recent interest in the privatization of major urban roads has opened up the debate on the tolling of such facilities. Central to the identification of optimal tolls is a knowledge of the amount of money individuals are willing to outlay to save travel time. This paper combines a utility maximization framework with stated response data to determine values of time savings in the presence of varying levels of toll for the full set of urban journey purposes. The empirical results provide a basis for establishing one benchmark for toll setting, in the context of substantial lengths of urban roads. There are no tolled urban roads in any major urban area throughout the world. Copyright 1990 by The Economic Society of Australia.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The author draws on the existing literature on vehicle scrappage and its links with future vehicle prices to provide a sim ple framework for determining the loss rates and relevant capital cos ts of the stock of vehicles available in 1982 in the Sydney metropoli tan area. Vehicle prices have an influence on vehicle life expectancy , and technical deterioration alone is an inappropriate basis for los s rate determination. Copyright 1987 by The Economic Society of Australia.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["It is often stated that the single most important influence on the quality of forecasts of behaviour is the set of predetermined exogenous variables (typically sociodemographic) that categorise the population. These variables are used to carry the sampled population into the future as a representation of the composition of future populations. Such variables or segmentation criteria are typically dictated by the limited set of descriptors projected by specialised forecasting agencies. Although the wisdom of their efforts is respected, from time to time it seems worthwhile to reappraise the set of exogenous variables which are subject to intense forecasting to see if there may be a case for considering additional variables (and even `resting' the current set). It is argued that a desired segmentation set should be linked to preference stability, and that a suitable procedure for establishing such a link is via preference data derived from a controlled experimental design. From the empirical study it is illustrated how preference data can be combined with socioeconomic data to seek out the role of the `current' set and the `new' set of socioeconomic variables in a particular forecasting context. Since the selection of variables must be application specific, the main emphasis of this paper is on the methodology. The reported empirical findings are of illustrative use only."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper discusses some of the objectives of privatization and issues that are central to the debate on the wisdom of privatization. These issues include: the relationship between asset ownership and the competitive environment; the spreading ownership of productive assets; the role of regulation ("protective" privatization); and alternatives to asset sale such as competitive bidding to contract out a service. Copyright 1986 by Blackwell Publishers Ltd/University of Adelaide and Flinders University of South Australia'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Sequential estimation of a nested logit model is in general not an empirically desirable procedure, either as an alternative to full information maximum likelihood (FIML) estimation or as a source of param eter starting values for FIML estimation. Empirical studies which use varying ch oice sets across the sampled population create ambiguity in the link between seq uential and simultaneously estimated nested logit models. FIML estimation is now a computationally feasible strategy as illustrated herein. Copyright 1986 by MIT Press.'] ["The major objective of the study of the dimensions of automobile demand (1981 - 1988) is to obtain reliable forecasts of the variables which drive the fundamental energy equation: energy consumed (litres) = efficiency of technology (litres per 100 kilometres) x utilisation rate (kilometres per period). Since the level of utilisation is unlikely to be independent of the state of technology, and since both dimensions are conditioned by the state of the economy and the nature of households as well as by the extent of corporate-sector support to the household sector, it is necessary to view the levels of vehicle usage and vehicle fuel efficiency as outputs of the broader household decision process. This broader context can be represented by a study of the household's choice of automobiles (by number and composition) and level of utilisation. This perspective enables us to view vehicle efficiency and utilisation as derivatives of a study of the household's demand for mobility services, which is derived from the demand for end activities (consumption of goods and leisure). Since we are especially interested in the role of fuel prices and vehicle technology in the household's decision on the level of vehicle utilisation, it is desirable to monitor the response path of a sample of households over a period of time. A single cross-section approach cannot identify the influence of changing fuel prices on vehicle use, nor can it adequately accommodate the temporal relationship between vehicle purchase/disposal decision and the utilisation rate. To represent satisfactorily the role of policy variables (for example, fuel prices, taxes associated with vehicle possession, standards for vehicle technology) in the context of the wider set of influences on household automobile possession and usage, the study members have developed an econometric model system which jointly models the household's choice of vehicles and utilisation level over the period 1981 - 1985. This paper provides an overview of the theoretical, methodological, and empirical dimensions of the project and, where appropriate, introduces some preliminary findings. The project in its entirety is due for completion in late 1988."] ['Vehicle-use modelling at the household level has taken on new importance with the pressures on governments to encourage more efficient utilisation of increasingly scarce nonreplenishible liquid fuels. The fundamental energy equation recognizes two direct influences on consumption--the fuel efficiency of the vehicle and the amount of use. Until recently, the interrelationship between vehicle choice and vehicle utilisation at the household level was acknowledged but ignored. The availability of reliable vehicle-use data at the household level now enables a more serious effort at amending the imbalance of research effort where the reliance has been predominantly on vehicle choice modelling and gross (exogenous) assumptions on utilisation as a basis for predicting fuel consumption. This paper proposes an econometric method for identifying the influences on household vehicle use. It differs from previous empirical work in that vehicle kilometers, fuel cost per kilometer and vehicle fuel efficiency are endogenous, with utilisation of each vehicle endogeneously dependent on the utilisation of each and every household vehicle. The data are drawn from wave 1 of a four-wave panel of 1436 households in the Sydney metropolitan area. The empirical findings expose a set of influences on use hitherto not considered. The model specification provides an appropriate module for integration with household-based discrete choice models of vehicle choice.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The emphasis on energy consumption in studies of traveller behaviour has led to increased interest in the development of policy sensitive models of automobile demand. In recognition of the fuller dimensions of automobile demand, a number of studies have considered choice amongst types of automobiles as well as number of automobiles. With rare exception, existing studies have concentrated on either type choice or number choice. In all instances the approach has been static. This paper develops a series of linked discrete-choice models to explain household automobile holdings (type and number) and adjustments in the holdings over time. The empirical study is part of an initial data effort leading up to the development of a full scale longitudinal panel of Sydney households. A model system based on a retrospective panel of 354 households, interviewed in 1980, is reported herein. The model is dynamic in the sense that it allows for prior decisions, brand loyalty and the costs of transacting.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["Student residential relocation decisions are not well understood. Knowledge of the factors considered in such decisions is important in the planning of the residential accommodation requirements of tertiary institutions. In this paper we apply a probablistic choice model of the logit form to identify the factors important to a student's choice between residential movement and nonmovement during the period of study. A sample of students in Sydney is used to estimate the model, and a separate sample drawn to assess its predictive ability. The model is estimated on student-specific data, and tested for the functional form of elements of the indirect utility-function. The empirical results support the 'accessibility to academic institution' hypothesis, and identify some neglected explanatory variables -- especially access to finance, and support from parents."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['When a "new" alternative is introduced, post-estimation, into a logit model, analysis initially exclude an ASC or occasionally assume a correspondence with an existing alternative. Using a recent data set for mode and route choice, the paper highlights the forecasting implications of ignoring the ASC in the utility expression of a "new" alternative, and how sensitive the market shares are to the inclusion/ exclusion of the ASC.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Transport-planning packages are increasingly being reappraised for technical content and role, in the current climate of capital rationing and short-run planning horizons. This paper outlines in a broad manner the major roles of established packages and suggests the major areas of deficiency, given that the present perceived planning emphasis will hold in the future. The important distinction between the concept of packages per se and the particular models used therein is emphasised. Particular reference is made to the improved Urban Transportation Planning System (UTPS) package of the US Department of Transportation (1977).'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The aim of this paper is to investigate at a conceptual level, with a limited amount of empirical evidence, the likely consequences on our present planning methodologies of taking into account the true structure of all journeys. A particular concern is the influence of changes in land-use configurations on the structure of journeys and the probable policy implications. A consideration of journey structure appears to offer one potentially promising procedure for relating land use and transport plans in a way that yields more realistic insights and policy in urban areas. The paper concludes with some suggestions for the way ahead.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The behavioural value of travel time savings (VTTS) remains a controversial data item in the evaluation of transport projects. Over the last 40 years we have seen numerous empirical studies on the amount that an individual or firm is willing to pay to save a unit of travel time (or more precisely transfer a fixed amount of time from one activity to another). With a few exceptions, the majority of empirical studies have used essentially the same data metric and model estimation procedure. The most popular approaches have used either revealed preference (RP) or stated preference (SP) data and a multinomial logit (MNL) choice model to identify marginal rates of substitution between travel time and price of a trip. A few more advanced studies have integrated RP and SP data and have explored the gains in behavioural power of models that relax, to varying degrees, the underlying assumptions that produce the MNL model. This paper highlights the potential gains from a more carefully considered structure of the unobserved effects which condition the form of a discrete choice model, and hence the possible misinference from the simpler MNL specification. We demonstrate the implication for VTTS estimates of serial correlation between the SP treatments, covariance amongst alternatives, presence of individual specific (random) effects or heterogeneity, and differential variance of the unobserved effects.']