 ['In many economic models, objects of interest are functions which satisfy conditional moment restrictions. Economics does not restrict the functional form of these models, motivating nonparametric methods. In this paper we review identification results and describe a simple nonparametric instrumental variables (NPIV) estimator. We also consider a simple method of inference. In addition we show how the ability to uncover nonlinearities with conditional moment restrictions is related to the strength of the instruments. We point to applications where important nonlinearities can be found with NPIV and applications where they cannot.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["This paper gives a relatively simple, well behaved solution to the problem of many instruments in heteroskedastic data. Such settings are common in microeconometric applications where many instruments are used to improve efficiency and allowance for heteroskedasticity is generally important. The solution is a Fuller (1977) like estimator and standard errors that are robust to heteroskedasticity and many instruments. We show that the estimator has finite moments and high asymptotic efficiency in a range of cases. The standard errors are easy to compute, being likeWhite's (1982), with additional terms that account for many instruments. They are consistent under standard, many instrument, and many weak instrument asymptotics. Based on a series of Monte Carlo experiments, we find that the estimators perform as well as LIML or Fuller (1977) under homoskedasticity, and have much lower bias and dispersion under heteroskedasticity, in nearly all cases considered.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['This paper derives the limiting distributions of alternative jackknife instrumental variables (JIV) estimators and gives formulas for accompanying consistent standard errors in the presence of heteroskedasticity and many instruments. The asymptotic framework includes the many instrument sequence of Bekker (1994, Econometrica 62, 657\xe2\x80\x93681) and the many weak instrument sequence of Chao and Swanson (2005, Econometrica 73, 1673\xe2\x80\x931691). We show that JIV estimators are asymptotically normal and that standard errors are consistent provided that null as n \xe2\x86\x92\xe2\x88\x9e, where K and r denote, respectively, the number of instruments and the concentration parameter. This is in contrast to the asymptotic behavior of such classical instrumental variables estimators as limited information maximum likelihood, bias-corrected two-stage least squares, and two-stage least squares, all of which are inconsistent in the presence of heteroskedasticity, unless K n/ rn \xe2\x86\x920. We also show that the rate of convergence and the form of the asymptotic covariance matrix of the JIV estimators will in general depend on the strength of the instruments as measured by the relative orders of magnitude of r and K .'] ['In this paper, we analyze properties of the Continuous Updating Estimator (CUE) proposed by Hansen et al. (1996), which has been suggested as a solution to the finite sample bias problems of the two-step GMM estimator. We show that the estimator should be expected to perform poorly in finite samples under weak identification, in particular, the estimator is not guaranteed to have finite moments of any order. We propose the Regularized CUE (RCUE) as a solution to this problem. The RCUE solves a modification of the first-order conditions for the CUE estimator and is shown to be asymptotically equivalent to CUE under many weak moment asymptotics. Our theoretical findings are confirmed by extensive Monte Carlo studies.'] ['Instrumental variables are often associated with low estimator precision. This paper explores efficiency gains which might be achievable using moment conditions which are nonlinear in the disturbances and are based on flexible parametric families for error distributions. We show that these estimators can achieve the semiparametric efficiency bound when the true error distribution is a member of the parametric family. Monte Carlo simulations demonstrate low efficiency loss in the case of normal error distributions and potentially significant efficiency improvements in the case of thick-tailed and/or skewed error distributions.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' This paper uses control variables to identify and estimate models with nonseparable, multidimensional disturbances. Triangular simultaneous equations models are considered, with instruments and disturbances that are independent and a reduced form that is strictly monotonic in a scalar disturbance. Here it is shown that the conditional cumulative distribution function of the endogenous variable given the instruments is a control variable. Also, for any control variable, identification results are given for quantile, average, and policy effects. Bounds are given when a common support assumption is not satisfied. Estimators of identified objects and bounds are provided, and a demand analysis empirical example is given. Copyright 2009 The Econometric Society.'] ['Properties of GMM estimators are sensitive to the choice of instrument. Using many instruments leads to high asymptotic asymptotic efficiency but can cause high bias and/or variance in small samples. In this paper we develop and implement asymptotic mean square error (MSE) based criteria for instrument selection in estimation of conditional moment restriction models. The models we consider include various nonlinear simultaneous equations models with unknown heteroskedasticity. We develop moment selection criteria for the familiar two-step optimal GMM estimator (GMM), a bias corrected version, and generalized empirical likelihood estimators (GEL), that include the continuous updating estimator (CUE) as a special case. We also find that the CUE has lower higher-order variance than the bias-corrected GMM estimator, and that the higher-order efficiency of other GEL estimators depends on conditional kurtosis of the moments.'] [' Using many moment conditions can improve efficiency but makes the usual generalized method of moments (GMM) inferences inaccurate. Two-step GMM is biased. Generalized empirical likelihood (GEL) has smaller bias, but the usual standard errors are too small in instrumental variable settings. In this paper we give a new variance estimator for GEL that addresses this problem. It is consistent under the usual asymptotics and, under many weak moment asymptotics, is larger than usual and is consistent. We also show that the Kleibergen (2005) Lagrange multiplier and conditional likelihood ratio statistics are valid under many weak moments. In addition, we introduce a jackknife GMM estimator, but find that GEL is asymptotically more efficient under many weak moments. In Monte Carlo examples we find that t-statistics based on the new variance estimator have nearly correct size in a wide range of cases. Copyright 2009 The Econometric Society.'] [' Sample selection models are important for correcting the effects of non-random sampling. This paper is about semiparametric estimation using a series approximation to the correction term. Regression spline and power series approximations are considered. Asymptotic normality and consistency of an asymptotic variance estimator are shown. Copyright (C) The Author(s). Journal compilation (C) Royal Economic Society 2009'] ['This essay discusses the issues of identification and estimation of the average treatment effect and the average effect of treatment on the treated.'] ['Using many valid instrumental variables has the potential to improve efficiency but makes the usual inference procedures inaccurate. We give corrected standard errors, an extension of Bekker to nonnormal disturbances, that adjust for many instruments. We find that this adjustment is useful in empirical work, simulations, and in the asymptotic theory. Use of the corrected standard errors in t-ratios leads to an asymptotic approximation order that is the same when the number of instrumental variables grows as when the number of instruments is fixed. We also give a version of the Kleibergen weak instrument statistic that is robust to many instruments.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Modeling choices that are both discrete and continuous is important in several settings. The purpose of this article is to explore formulation and identification of such models when indirect utility functions are specified nonparametrically. Here we consider general nonseparable disturbances. We give identification results for nonseparable sample selection models and use these to analyze identification of discrete&amp;sol;continuous choice models. Copyright 2007 by the Economics Department Of The University Of Pennsylvania And Osaka University Institute Of Social And Economic Research Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The purpose of this note is to show how semiparametric estimators with a small bias property can be constructed. The small bias property (SBP) of a semiparametric estimator is that its bias converges to zero faster than the pointwise and integrated bias of the nonparametric estimator on which it is based. We show that semiparametric estimators based on twicing kernels have the SBP. We also show that semiparametric estimators where nonparametric kernel estimation does not affect the asymptotic variance have the SBP. In addition we discuss an interpretation of series and sieve estimators as idempotent transformations of the empirical distribution that helps explain the known result that they lead to the SBP. In Monte Carlo experiments we find that estimators with the SBP have mean-square error that is smaller and less sensitive to bandwidth than those that do not have the SBP. Copyright The Econometric Society 2004.'] [" Conditional moment restrictions can be combined through GMM estimation to construct more efficient semiparametric estimators. This paper is about attainable efficiency for such estimators. We define and use a moment tangent set, the directions of departure from the truth allowed by the moments, to characterize when the semiparametric efficiency bound can be attained. The efficiency condition is that the moment tangent set equals the model tangent set. We apply these results to transformed, censored, and truncated regression models, e.g., finding that the conditional moment restrictions from Powell's (1986) censored regression quantile estimators can be combined to approximate efficiency when the disturbance is independent of regressors. Copyright The Econometric Society 2004."] [' Fixed effects estimators of panel models can be severely biased because of the well-known incidental parameters problem. We show that this bias can be reduced by using a panel jackknife or an analytical bias correction motivated by large T. We give bias corrections for averages over the fixed effects, as well as model parameters. We find large bias reductions from using these approaches in examples. We consider asymptotics where T grows with n, as an approximation to the properties of the estimators in econometric applications. We show that if T grows at the same rate as n, the fixed effects estimator is asymptotically biased, so that asymptotic confidence intervals are incorrect, but that they are correct for the panel jackknife. We show T growing faster than n-super-1/3 suffices for correctness of the analytic correction, a property we also conjecture for the jackknife. Copyright The Econometric Society 2004.'] [' In an effort to improve the small sample properties of generalized method of moments (GMM) estimators, a number of alternative estimators have been suggested. These include empirical likelihood (EL), continuous updating, and exponential tilting estimators. We show that these estimators share a common structure, being members of a class of generalized empirical likelihood (GEL) estimators. We use this structure to compare their higher order asymptotic properties. We find that GEL has no asymptotic bias due to correlation of the moment functions with their Jacobian, eliminating an important source of bias for GMM in models with endogeneity. We also find that EL has no asymptotic bias from estimating the optimal weight matrix, eliminating a further important source of bias for GMM in panel data models. We give bias corrected GMM and GEL estimators. We also show that bias corrected EL inherits the higher order property of maximum likelihood, that it is higher order asymptotically efficient relative to the other bias corrected estimators. Copyright Econometric Society 2004.'] [' The small sample performance of least median of squares, reweighted least squares, least squares, least absolute deviations, and three partially adaptive estimators are compared using Monte Carlo simulations. Two data problems are addressed in the paper: (1) data generated from non-normal error distributions and (2) contaminated data. Breakdown plots are used to investigate the sensitivity of partially adaptive estimators to data contamination relative to RLS. One partially adaptive estimator performs especially well when the errors are skewed, while another partially adaptive estimator and RLS perform particularly well when the errors are extremely leptokur-totic. In comparison with RLS, partially adaptive estimators are only moderately effective in resisting data contamination; however, they outperform least squares and least absolute deviation estimators.'] [' In econometrics there are many occasions where knowledge of the structural relationship among dependent variables is required to answer questions of interest. This paper gives identification and estimation results for nonparametric conditional moment restrictions. We characterize identification of structural functions as completeness of certain conditional distributions, and give sufficient identification conditions for exponential families and discrete variables. We also give a consistent, nonparametric estimator of the structural function. The estimator is nonparametric two-stage least squares based on series approximation, which overcomes an ill-posed inverse problem by placing bounds on integrals of higher-order derivatives. Copyright The Econometric Society 2003.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Sample selection models provide an important way of accounting for economic decisions that combine discrete and continuous choices and of correcting for nonrandom sampling. Nonparametric estimators for these models are developed in this paper. These can be used for estimating shapes and important economic quantities, as in standard nonparametric regression. Endogeneity of regressors of interest is allowed for. Series estimators for these models are developed, which are useful for imposing additivity restrictions that arise from selection corrections. Convergence rates and asymptotic normality results are derived. An application to returns to schooling among Australian young females is given. Copyright The Review of Economic Studies Limited 2003'] [' Generalized method of moments (GMM) has been an important innovation in econometrics. Its usefulness has motivated a search for good inference procedures based on GMM. This article presents a novel method of bootstrapping for GMM based on resampling from the empirical likelihood distribution that imposes the moment restrictions. We show that this approach yields a large-sample improvement and is efficient, and give examples. We also discuss the development of GMM and other recent work on improved inference.'] [' Choice models with nonlinear budget sets provide a precise way of accounting for the nonlinear tax structures present in many applications. In this paper we propose a nonparametric approach to estimation of these models. The basic idea is to think of the choice, in our case hours of labor supply, as being a function of the entire budget set. Then we can do nonparametric regression where the variable in the regression is the budget set. We reduce the dimensionality of this problem by exploiting structure implied by utility maximization with piecewise linear convex budget sets. This structure leads to estimators where the number of segments can differ across observations and does not affect accuracy. We give consistency and asymptotic normality results for these estimators. The usefulness of the estimator is demonstrated in an empirical example, where we find it has a large impact on estimated effects of the Swedish tax reform. Copyright The Econometric Society 2002.'] ['This paper evaluates the tax reforms carried out in Sweden between 1980 and 1991. We use a recently developed nonparametric labor supply function to account for the behavioral responses of the taxed individuals. We decompose the tax reform to study how the separate components influence hours of work, tax revenues and income distribution. The results indicate that the reform was underfinanced and that the increased indirect taxation and redesigned transfer system almost eliminated the positive effects on hours of work due to the decreased marginal taxes on labor income.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Properties of instrumental variable estimators are sensitive to the choice of valid instruments, even in large cross-section applications. In this paper we address this problem by deriving simple mean-square error criteria that can be minimized to choose the instrument set. We develop these criteria for two-stage least squares (2SLS), limited information maximum likelihood (LIML), and a bias adjusted version of 2SLS (B2SLS). We give a theoretical derivation of the mean-square error and show optimality. In Monte Carlo experiments we find that the instrument choice generally yields an improvement in performance. Also, in the Angrist and Krueger (1991) returns to education application, when the instrument set is chosen in the way we consider, it turns out that both 2SLS and LIML give similar (large) returns to education.'] [' Nonlinear regression with measurement error is important for estimation from microeconomic data. One approach to identification and estimation is a causal model, in which the unobserved true variable is predicted by observable variables. This paper details the estimation of such a model using simulated moments and a flexible disturbance distribution. An estimator of the asymptotic variance is given for parametric models. Also, a semiparametric consistency result is given. The value of the estimator is demonstrated in a Monte Carlo study and an application to estimating Engel Curves. \xc2\xa9 2001 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" This paper presents a simple two-step nonparametric estimator for a triangular simultaneous equation model. The authors use series approximations that exploit the additive structure of the model. The first step comprises the nonparametric estimation of the reduced form and the corresponding residuals. The second step is the estimation of the primary equation via nonparametric regression with the reduced form residuals included as a regressor. The authors derive consistency and asymptotic normality results for their estimator, including optimal convergence rates. An empirical example, on the relationship between the hourly wage rate and hours worked, illustrates the utility of the authors' approach."] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['For conditional heteroskedasticity models, the authors study the identification condition that is required for consistency of a non-Gaussian quasi-maximum-likelihood estimator. They show that, if the conditional mean is zero or if a symmetry condition is satisfied, then the identification condition is satisfied. Without symmetry, an additional parameter, for the location of the innovation density, must be added for identification. For the conditional variance parameters of a GARCH process, there is no efficiency loss from adding the parameter under symmetry, when the parameter is not needed.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The authors apply nonparametric regression models to estimation of demand curves of the type most often used in applied research. From the demand curve estimators they derive estimates of exact consumers surplus and deadweight loss. The authors also develop tests of the symmetry and downward sloping properties of compensated demand. They work out asymptotic normal sampling theory for kernel and series nonparametric estimators as well as for the parametric case. The paper includes an application to gasoline demand that estimates the shape of the demand curve and the average magnitude of welfare loss from a tax on gasoline. Copyright 1995 by The Econometric Society.'] ['Two-step estimators, where the first step is the predicted value from a nonparametric regression, are useful in many contexts. Examples include a non-parametric residual variance, probit with nonparametric generated regressors, efficient GMM estimation with randomly missing data, heteroskedasticity corrected least squares, semiparametric regression, and efficient nonlinear instrumental variables estimators. The purpose of this paper is the development of null consistency and asymptotic normality results when the first step is a series estimator. The paper presents the form of a correction term for the first step on the second-step asymptotic variance and gives a consistent variance estimator. Data-dependent numbers of terms are allowed for, and the regressor distribution can be discrete, continuous, or a mixture of the two. Results for several new estimators are given.'] [" The authors propose a nonparametric method for automatically selecting the number of autocovariances to use in computing a heteroskedasticity and autocorrelation consistent covariance matrix. For a given kernel for weighting the autocovariances, they prove that their procedure is asymptotically equivalent to one that is optimal under a mean-squared error loss function. Monte Carlo simulations suggest that the authors' procedure performs tolerably well, although it does result in size distortions. Copyright 1994 by The Review of Economic Studies Limited."] ["This paper discusses estimation of the semilinear model E[y x, z] = x'[beta] + g(z) using series approximations to the unknown function g(z) under much weaker conditions than heretofore given in the literature. In particular, we allow for z being multidimensional and to have a discrete distribution, features often present in applications. In addition, the smoothness conditions are quite weak: it will suffice for [radical sign]n consistency of [beta] that the modulus of continuity of g(z) and E[x z] be higher than one-fourth the dimension of z and that the number of terms be chosen appropriately."] ['Econometric applications of kernel estimators are proliferating, suggesting the need for convenient variance estimates and conditions for asymptotic normality. This paper develops a general \xe2\x80\x9cdelta-method\xe2\x80\x9d variance estimator for functionals of kernel estimators. Also, regularity conditions for asymptotic normality are given, along with a guide to verify them for particular estimators. The general results are applied to partial means, which are averages of kernel estimators over some of their arguments with other arguments held fixed. Partial means have econometric applications, such as consumer surplus estimation, and are useful for estimation of additive nonparametric models.'] [' This paper derives a general formula for the asymptotic variance of semiparametric estimators that accounts for the presence of nonparametric estimators of functions. The general formula is specialized to show invariance of the asymptotic variance to the type of nonparametric estimator and to obtain correction terms for estimation of densities and mean-square projections (including conditional expectations). Regularity conditions for the validity of the formula are also given, including primitive conditions for asymptotic normality when series estimators are present. New examples considered include a semiparametric panel probit estimator and a series estimator of the average derivative. Copyright 1994 by The Econometric Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Weighted average derivatives are useful parameters for semiparametric index models and nonparametric demand analysis. This paper gives efficiency results for average derivative estimators, including formulating estimators that have high efficiency. The authors derive the efficiency bound for weighted average derivatives of conditional location functionals, such as the conditional mean and median. They also derive the efficiency bound for semiparametric index models, where the location measure depends on indices or linear combinations of the regressors. The authors derive the efficient weight function when the distribution of the regressors is elliptically symmetric. They also discuss how to combine estimators with different known weight functions to achieve efficiency. Copyright 1993 by The Econometric Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The goodness-of-fit statistic for fixed effects models is shown to simplify to the degrees of freedom times the R(superscript "2") from a regression of analysis of covariance residuals on right hand side variables. This result is applied to test models for union wage effects. Identification and estimation of the return to schooling in models with fixed effects is also discussed. Analysis of covariance estimates of the returns to schooling are precisely estimated and roughly twice the size of ordinary least squares estimates. The goodness-of-fit test suggests that the fixed effects assumption is not appropriate for human capital earnings functions.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Semiparametric models are those where the functional form of some components is unknown. Efficiency bounds are of fundamental importance for such models. The provide a guide to estimation methods and give an asymptotic efficiency standard. The purpose of this paper is to provide an introduction to research methods and problems for semiparametric efficiency bonds. The nature of the bounds is discussed, as well as ways of calculating them. Their uses in solving estimation problems are outlined, including construction of semiparametric estimators and calculation of the limiting distribution. The paper includes new results as well as survey material. Copyright 1990 by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.'] ['We consider the linear regression model with censored dependent variable, where the disturbance terms are restricted only to have zero conditional median (or other prespecified quantile) given the regressors and the censoring point. Thus, the functional form of the conditional distribution of the disturbances is unrestricted, permitting heteroskedasticity of unknown form. For this model, a lower bound for the asymptotic covariance matrix for regular estimators of the regression coefficients is derived. This lower bound corresponds to the covariance matrix of an optimally weighted censored least absolute deviations estimator, where the optimal weight is the conditional density at zero of the disturbance. We also show how an estimator that attains this lower bound can be constructed, via nonparametric estimation of the conditional density at zero of the disturbance. As a special case our results apply to the (uncensored) linear model under a conditional median restriction.'] [' This paper considers asymptotically efficient instrumental variables estimation of nonlinear models in an i.i.d. environment. The optimal instruments are estimated by nonparametric methods, either nearest neighbor or series regression. Ways of choosing the degree of approximation of the nonparametric instruments are discussed. Asymptotic efficiency is shown. The finite sample properties of the estimators are examined in a small sampling study of an endogenous dummy variable model. Copyright 1990 by The Econometric Society.'] ['As in parametric models, one can define an efficiency bound for estimators in semi-parametric models, which is analogous to the Cramer-Rao bound. This paper surveys the available results: computation of the bound by mean of projection, possibility and construction of semi-parametric estimators, efficient estimation in semi-parametric models. Numerous examples are discussed and a new class of estimators in censored regression models is introduced.'] [' This paper examines the intertemporal linkages between local government expenditures and revenues. The main results that emerge from an analysis of fiscal data from 171 municipal governments over the period 1972-80 are that (1) one or two years are sufficient to summarize the relevant dynamic interrelationships; (2) there are important intertemporal linkages between expenditures, taxes, and grants; and (3) past revenues help predict current expenditures, but past expenditures do not alter the future path of revenues. This last finding is contrary to results that have emerged from previous analyses of federal fiscal data. Copyright 1989 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper considers estimation and testing of vector autoregressio n coefficients in panel data, and applies the techniques to analyze the dynamic relationships between wages an d hours worked in two samples of American males. The model allows for nonstationary individual effects and is estimated by applying instrumental variables to the quasi-differenced autoregressive equations. The empirical results suggest the absence of lagged hours in the wage forecasting equation. The results also show that lagged hours is important in the hours equation. Copyright 1988 by The Econometric Society.'] ['This paper considers M-estimators of regression parameters that make use of a generalized functional form for the disturbance distribution. The family of distributions considered is the generalized t (GT), which includes the power exponential or Box-Tiao, normal, Laplace, and t distributions as special cases. The corresponding influence function is bounded and redescending for finite \xe2\x80\x9cdegrees of freedom.\xe2\x80\x9d The regression estimators considered are those that maximize the GT quasi-likelihood, as well as one-step versions. Estimators of the parameters of the GT distribution and the effect of such estimates on the asymptotic efficiency of the regression estimates are discussed. We give a minimum-distance interpretation of the choice of GT parameter estimate that minimizes the asymptotic variance of the regression parameters.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' This paper considers estimation and testing using location measures for regression m odels that are based on an asymmetric least-squares criterion functio n. These estimators have properties that are analogous to regression quantiles, but are easier to calculate, as are the corresponding test statistics. Asymmetric least-squares tests of homoskedasticity and s ymmetry compare quite favorably with other tests of these hypotheses in terms of asymptotic relative efficiency. Consequently, asymmetric least-squares estimation provides a convenient and relatively efficie nt method of characterizing the conditional distributi on of a dependent variable given some regressors. Copyright 1987 by The Econometric Society.'] [" The authors consider estimation of simultaneous equations models with covariance restrictions. They consider FIML estimation and extend J. A. Hausman's instrumental variables interpretation of the FIML estim ator to the covariance restrictions case. A slight variation on the i nstrumental variables theme yields a simple, efficient alternative to FIML. The authors augment the original equation system by equations implied by the covariance restrictions, linearized around an initial consistent estimator, and perform three-stage least squares to obtain an asymptotically efficient estimator. They also present a simple me thod of obtaining an initial consistent estimator when the covariance restrictions are needed for identification. Finally, they consider i dentification from the standpoint of the moment restrictions implied by instrument-residual orthogonality and covariance restrictions. Copyright 1987 by The Econometric Society."] ['This paper describes a simple method of calculating a heteroskedasticity and autocorrelation consistent covariance matrix that is positive semi-definite by construction. It also establishes consistency of the estimated covariance matrix under fairly general conditions.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' Efficient method of moments estimation techniques include many commonly used techniques, including ordinary least squares, two- and three-stage least squares, quasi maximum likelihood, and versions of these for nonlinear environments. For models estimated by any efficient method of moments technique, the authors define analogues to the maximum likeliho od based Wald, likelihood ratio, Lagrange multiplier, and minimum chi-squared statistics. They prove the mutual asymptotic equivalence of the four in an environment that allows for disturbances that are auto correlated and heteroskedastic. They also describe a very convenient way to test a linear hypothesis in a linear model. Copyright 1987 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' The basic point of this article is that a "crash program" mentality leads to inappropriate questions and wrong answers about policy issues in large-scale government subsidized research, like the development of synfuels. R&amp;D; funding should be viewed as a sequential decision, not a once-and-for-all choice. Using some new results in the theory of information gathering, we apply an operational sequential methodology to analyze whether the U.S. government should subsidize the development of liquid synthetic fuels from coal.']