 [' type="main" xml:id="ecca12072-abs-0001"&gt; We develop a model predicting two channels through which creditor protection affects stock prices: (1) the probability of a liquidity crisis leading to a binding investment-finance constraint falls with better creditor protection; (2) the stock prices under the investment-constrained regime increase with better creditor protection. We find evidence for both predictions using data on stock markets and creditor protection for 52 countries from 1980 to 2008. In particular, better creditor protection is correlated with lower stock market volatility and lower frequency of crises. Moreover, during crises, stock prices and investment fall more in countries with poor creditor protection.'] [' Despite big gains from easing restrictions on international labor mobility, liberalizing migration flows is not pursued unilaterally or negotiated among countries in a way that international trade negotiations are pursued. Among several key explanations is the fiscal burden imposed by immigration on native-born. The paper focuses on a central tension faced by policy makers in countries that receive migrants from lower wage countries. Such countries are typically high productivity and capital rich, and the resulting high wages attract both skilled and unskilled migrants. A generous welfare state may attract low-skill migration deter skilled migration, since it is likely to be accompanied by higher redistributive taxes. Assuming that a group of host countries faces an upward supply of immigrants, the analysis demonstrates that tax competition does not indeed lead to a race to the bottom; competition may lead to higher taxes than coordination. There exists a fiscal externality (fiscal leakage) that causes tax rates (on both labor and capital), and the volume of migration (of both skill types), to be higher in the competitive regime than in the coordinated regime. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [" We survey three distinct types of financial crises which took place in the 1990s and the 2000s: (i) The credit implosion leading to severe banking crisis in Japan, (ii) The foreign reserves' meltdown triggered by foreign hot money flight from frothy economies with fixed exchange rate regimes of developing Asian economies, and (iii) The 2008 worldwide debacle rooted in financial institutional opacity and reckless aggregate demand management, epi-centered in the US, that spread almost instantaneously across the globe, mostly through international financial networks. (JEL codes: E30, F30, G01, N1) Copyright The Author 2011. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Ifo Institute for Economic Research, Munich. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com, Oxford University Press."] ['A Tobin q model of investment is used to show that stronger creditor protection increases the expected level and lowers the variance of stock prices in the presence of credit crunches. There are two main channels through which creditor protection enhances the performance of the stock market: (1) The credit-constrained stock price increases with better protection of creditors; (2) The probability of a credit crunch leading to a binding credit constraint falls with strong protection of creditors. ; The paper tests the predictions of the model by using cross\xe2\x80\x93country panel regressions of stock market returns in 40 countries over the period from 1984 to 2004 at an annual frequency. We find broad empirical support for the prediction of the model that creditor protection increases the expected level of the stock market price level and reduces its volatility, both directly and indirectly, by lowering the probability of credit crunches.'] [' A positive productivity shock in the host country tends typically to increase the volume of the desired foreign direct investment (FDI) flows to the host country, through the standard marginal profitability effect. But, at the same time, such a shock may lower the likelihood of making any new FDI flows by the source country, through a total profitability effect, derived from the a general-equilibrium increase in domestic input prices. This is the gist of the theory that we develop in the article. For a sample of 62 OECD and non-OECD countries over the period 1987-2000, we provide supporting evidence for the existence of such conflicting effects of productivity changes on bilateral FDI flows. We also uncover sizeable threshold barriers in our data set. (JEL codes: F2, F3) Copyright , Oxford University Press.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The paper develops a model of foreign direct investments (FDI) and foreign portfolio investments (FPI).The model describes an information-based trade off between direct investments and portfolio investments. Direct investors are more informed about the fundamentals of their projects. This information enables them to manage their projects more efficiently. However, it also creates an asymmetric-information problem in case they need to sell their projects prematurely, and reduces the price they can get in that case. As a result, investors, who know they are more likely to get a liquidity shock that forces them to sell early, are more likely to choose portfolio investments, whereas investors, who know they are less likely to get a liquidity shock, are more likely to choose direct investments. FDI is characterized by hands-on management style which enables the owner to obtain relatively refined information about the productivity of the firm. This superiority of FDI relative to FPI, comes with a cost: a firm owned by the relatively well-informed FDI investor has a low resale price because of a "lemons" type asymmetric information between the owner and potential buyers. The model can explain several stylized facts regarding foreign equity flows, such as the larger ratio of FDI to FPI inflows in developing countries relative to developed countries, and the greater volatility of FDI net inflows relative to FPI net inflows.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' type="main" xml:lang="en"&gt;     This paper tackles two established puzzles in international macroeconomics literature. The first is the lack of systematic differences in the macroeconomic performance across exchange rate regimes. The second is the absence of a clear empirical relationship between macroeconomic performance and capital-account liberalization. We suggest that these negative findings may be due to empirical methods that fail to account for a latent economic \xe2\x80\x98crisis state\xe2\x80\x99, influenced by exchange-rate and capital account regimes, and to allow that latent variable to influence the growth effects of policy regimes. In practice, we model and estimate the latent state of the economy as a crisis probability. Our proposed framework of analysis allows exchange rate and capital-market liberalization regimes to have both a direct effect on short-term growth, and an indirect effect on growth that is channelled through their effects on the crisis probability. The empirical decomposition of the total effect into two conflicting effects helps resolve the puzzles.  \xe2\x80\x94 Assaf Razin and Yona Rubinstein  '] [' The New-Keynesian aggregate supply derives from micro-foundations, an inflation-dynamics model very much like the tradition in the monetary literature. Inflation is primarily affected by: (1) economic slack, (2) expectations, (3) supply shocks, and (4) the persistence of inflation. This paper extends the New-Keynesian aggregate supply relationship to include also investment in capacity. Potential output, denned as the flexible-price equilibrium output depends endogenously on investment in capacity, on the pricing policy of firms. New-Keynesian theory stresses the notion that the pricing decisions are based on expected movements in marginal costs. In the absence of investment in capacity, inflation is related to movements in real marginal costs, and the latter is uniquely associated with movements in the output gap. In the presence of investment in capacity, the unique link between fluctuations in marginal costs and fluctuations in output gaps breaks down. Implications for central bank targeting of potential output and for the estimation of the Phillips curve are pointed out.'] ["This paper develops a model that captures important features of debt crises of the Brazilian type. Its applicability to Brazil lies in the facts that (1) macroeconomic fundamentals were relatively sound in the wake of the crisis (e.g., a nonnegligible primary surplus, a relatively low debt-GDP ratio, and low inflation); and (2) the trigger for the crisis - forthcoming elections with an expected regime change - appears to be extraneous. We rationalize the sort of circularity involved in a country's credit rating. In particular, we show how country credit ratings could bring about unstable macroeconomic behavior, and explore the implications of such behavior for fiscal policy. Copyright 2004, International Monetary Fund"] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The aging of the population shakes the public finance of pay- as-you-go social security systems. We develop a political-economy framework in which this demographic change leads to the downsizing of the social security system, and, as a consequence, to the emergence of supplemental individual retirement programs. Allowing for a one-shot budget deficit, earmarked to accommodate the cost of the social security reforms, is shown to facilitate the political-economy transition from a national to a private pension system.'] ["In the presence of economies of scale in the investment technology, trade openness may have non-conventional effects on the level of investment, its cyclical behavior, and the volatility of the terms of trade. Trade openness may lead to boom-bust cycles of investment supported by self-fulfilling expectations. The economy may oscillate between 'optimistic' expectations, 'good' terms-of-trade and investment boom to 'pessimistic' expectations, 'bad' terms-of-trade and investment bust. We also suggest that the likelihood of such oscillations is higher for developing than for developed economies, because the former may typically incur higher setup costs of investment. This phenomenon may help to explain the excessive volatility of the terms of trade of developing countries, relative to industrial countries.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['The paper develops an international macroeconomic model of FDI flows with a unique feature: a hands-on management ability to react in real time to changing economic environments. Anticipating this advantage, foreign direct investors can outbid other investors in a certain industry in which they specialize in the source country. The model can explain both two-way FDI flows among developed countries and one-way FDI flows from developed to developing country. The unique gains from FDI to the host country stem from the increased eciency of domestic investment.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The extent of taxation and redistribution policy is generally determined as a political-economy equilibrium by a balance between those who gain from higher taxes/transfers and those who lose. In a stylized model of migration and human capital formation, we show -- somewhat against the conventional wisdom -- that low-skill immigration may lead to a lower tax burden and less redistribution than would be the case with no immigration, even though migrants (naturally) join the pro-tax/transfer coalition. Data on 11 European countries over the period 1974 to 1992 are consistent with the implications of the theory: a higher share of immigrants in the population leads to a lower tax rate on labor income, even after controlling for the generosity and size of the welfare state, demographics, and the international exposure of the economy. As predicted by the theory, it is the increased share of low education immigrants that leads to the smaller tax burden.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The Paper extends Woodford\xe2\x80\x99s (2000) analysis of the closed economy Phillips curve to an open economy with both commodity trade and capital mobility. We show that consumption smoothing, which comes with the opening of the capital market, raises the degree of strategic complementarity among monopolistic competitive suppliers, thus rendering prices more sticky and magnifying output responses to nominal GDP shocks.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Recent empirical analyses show that asset flows can be modelled by the same "gravity" equations that trade economists have used so successfully for the past few decades. This is something of a surprise. Trade economists do not yet have a unified theory of why gravity models should work--and the situation is worse for asset flows. Reasonable theories would predict that greater distance between countries should generate more asset flows rather than less as the econometric results seem to consistently show. In this paper we discuss how host and source country GDPs, language, and distance--the core explanatory variables in the traditional gravity models--fare in trade and asset flows estimations. While the "distance puzzle" is not resolved, it is considerably reduced by going beyond consideration of physical distance to concepts of transactional distance and scale economies. Copyright 2002 by Scottish Economic Society.'] ['Data for the United States and countries in western Europe indicate a negative correlation between the dependency ratio and labor tax rates and the generosity of social transfers, after other factors that influence the size of the welfare state are controlled for. This occurs despite the increased political clout of the dependent population implied by the aging of the population. This paper develops an overlapping generations model of intra- and intergenerational transfers (including old-age social security) and human capital formation that addresses this seeming puzzle. We show that with democratic voting, an increase in the dependency ratio can lead to lower taxes or less generous social transfers.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ["A financial crisis with a capital flow reversal occurs when a country shifts abruptly from a 'good' equilibrium with a low country-specific risk premium to a 'bad' equilibrium with a high country-specific risk premium and no foreign credit.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['The flow of unskilled, low-earning migrants to developed countries with a comprehensive social security system, including retirement benefits, has attracted both public and academic attention in recent years. Being relatively low earners, the migrants typically are net beneficiaries of the welfare state in the short run. Therefore, an almost unanimous opposition to migration may arise in the potential host countries.'] ["Our paper analyses the effects of restrictions on capital mobility on the output-inflation tradeoff. Using a stochastic version of the Mundell-Fleming model, we establish a theoretical presumption that an increase in restrictions on capital mobility should make the tradeoff parameter smaller, that is, a given change in the inflation rate should be associated with smaller movements in output. To measure the extent to which countries restrict capital movements, we construct an index using data from the IMF's Annual Report on Exchange Rate Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions. The estimates of the output-inflation tradeoff parameter are obtained from studies by Lucas (1973), Ball, Mankiw and Romer (1988) and others. Consistent with the theoretical presumption, countries with greater restrictions on capital controls have a smaller tradeoff parameter, that is, a steeper Phillips curve. This result holds after controlling for the impact of variability of aggregate demand [as suggested by Lucas (1973)] and mean inflation [as suggested by Ball, Mankiw and Romer (1988)] on the tradeoff parameter.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' As relatively low earners, migrants are net beneficiaries of the welfare state. Therefore, in a static setup, migration may be resisted by the entire native-born population. However, it is shown that in a dynamic setup with a pension system, which is an important pillar of any welfare state, migration is beneficial to all income (high and low) and all age (old and young) groups, when the economy has good access to international capital markets. The pro-migration feature of the dynamic model is weakened and possibly overturned when the economy does not have good access to such markets. In this case, to the extent that factor prices are significantly affected by migration because of low substitution between labour and capital, low-skill native born and possibly also high-skill native born may lose. Copyright 2000 by The editors of the Scandinavian Journal of Economics.'] ['This paper considers the financing of investment in the presence of information asymmetry between "insiders" and "outsiders" of the firms. It establishes a well-defined capital structure for the economy as a whole with the following features: low-productivity firms rely on the equity market to finance investment at a relatively low level; medium-productivity firms may not invest at all; and high-productivity firms rely on the debt market to finance investment at a relatively high level. It is shown that the debt market is efficient, with respect to the scope and the amount of investmentmade by each firm. However, the equity market fails: its scope is too narrow and the amount of investment each firm makes is too little. A unique but rather unconventional policy tool is proposed to achieve constrained Pareto-efficiency, i.e., subsidies to those firms that choose to equity-finance their investment (i.e., equity-market-contingent grants).'] ['In the presence of asymmetric information, the stage at which financing decisions are made about investment projects in a small open economy is crucial for the composition of international capital inflows as well as for the efficiency of channeling savings into investment. This paper compares the implications of two extreme cases regarding the information possessed by the firms at their financing stage for whether inflows of foreign debt may crowd out foreign equity or the other way round. The scope for corrective tax policies is examined. We also provide a welfare comparison between the two mechanisms of capital flows.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In Razin, Sadka and Yuen (1998, 1999a), we explored the policy implications of the home-bias in international portfolio investment as a result of asymmetric information problems in which domestic savers, being "close" to the domestic market, have an informational advantage over foreign portfolio investors, who are "far away" from the domestic market. However, FDI is different from foreign portfolio investment, concerning relevant information about domestic firms. Through the stationing of managers from the headquarters of multinational firms in the foreign direct establishments in the destination countrie under their control. FDIors can monitor closely the operation of such establishments, thus circumventing these informational problems.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The problem of economic development, as Lucas (1988) states it, is the problem of accounting for the observed diversity in levels and rates of growth of per capita income across countries and across time. We study conditions under which capital mobility and labor mobility (two seemingly income-equalizing forces) may interact with cross-country differences in income tax rates and income tax principles (two seemingly income-diverging forces) to generate such diversity. As a corollary, we also examine when countries with different initial endowments may finally converge in their income levels.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Foreign direct investment (FDI) is observed to be a predominant form of capital flows to emerging economies, especially when they are liquidity-constrained internationally during a global financial crisis. The financial aspects of FDI are the focus of this paper. We analyze the problem of channelling domestic savings into productive investment in the presence of asymmetric information between the managing owners of firms and other portfolio stakeholders. We explore the role played by FDI in reviving equity-financed capital investment for economies plagued by such information problems. In the presence of information asymmetry, the paper identifies, however, how FDI gives rise to foreign overinvestment as well as domestic undersaving. The gains from trade argument (applied to intertemporal trade) is re-examined in this case of informational-asymmetry-driven FDI. We show that the gains could be sizable when the domestic credit market is either under-developed or failing as a result of a financial crisis. But with a well-functioning domestic credit market, the gains turn into losses. Surprisingly, capital may flow into the country even when the autarkic marginal productivity of capital in the domestic economy falls short of the world rate of interest. In such a situation, capital should have efficiently flown out rather than in, and FDI is a social loss-generating phenomenon. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 1999'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Optimal international taxation and its implications for convergence in long run income growth rates are analyzed in the context of an endogenously growing world economy with perfect capital mobility. Under tax competition (i) the residence principle will maximize national welfare; (ii) the optimal long run tax rate on capital incomes from various sources will be zero in all countries; and (iii) long term per capita income growth rates will be equalized across countries. Under tax coordination, (i) becomes irrelevant while (ii) and (iii) will continue to hold. In other words, optimal tax policies are growth-equalizing with and without international policy coordination. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 1999'] ['Even though financial markets today show a high degree of integration, the world capital market is still far from the textbook story of high capital mobility. The purpose of this paper is to highlight key source of market failure in the contest of international capital flows and to provide guidelines for efficient tax structure in the presence of capital market imperfections.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['The paper studies determinants and consequences of sharp reductions in current account imbalances (reversals) in low- and middle-income countries. It poses two questions: what triggers reversals, and what factors explain how costly reversals are? It finds that both domestic variables, such as the current account balance, openness to trade, and the level of reserves, and external variables, such as terms of trade shocks, U.S. real interest rates, and growth in industrial countries, seem to play important roles in explaining reversals in current account imbalances. It also finds some evidence that countries with a less appreciated real exchange rate, higher investment, and more openness before the reversal tend to grow faster after a reversal occurs.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' While technologies and policy fundamentals are presumably different internationally, inducing differences in growth rates, capital mobility can be a powerful force in equalizing output growth rates across countries. The paper provides some indirect evidence in support of this effect. In the context of regional growth, however, labor mobility can potentially equalize income levels across regions in the presence of human capital externalities. Supporting evidence is found for this effect, revealing that restrictions on labor flows tend to make per capita incomes more divergent across nations and/or regions. Copyright 1997 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd'] ['In the context of a human capital based growth model, we show the essential role of labor mobility in equalizing income levels for countries that start off from different initial income positions. Human capital externalities cum labor mobility are the driving forces behind the income level equalization process. In a non-cooperative equilibrium, labor mobility will be limited and income level equality will not be achieved.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Israel\'s experience indicates that high inflation places an asymmetrically heavy burden on workers, relative to employers and the self-employed. The mechanisms by which this unequally distributed burden is created are through the tax system and exchange-rate policy which altered the relative prices of low labour-intensive tradable goods versus high labour-intensive non-tradable goods. We have shown that the interaction between inflation and taxation resulted in a low tax burden on the business sector and relatively high burden on wage earners. (This "inflation tax" on wage earners does not stem from the traditional depreciation of money balances or the so-called Tanzi effect.) Indeed, the stabilization programme tilted the functional distribution of income in favour of labour. Copyright @ 1996 by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd. All rights reserved.'] ["We study the effects of capital income taxation on long run growth in an endogenous growth framework with two distinguishing features: endogenous population and international capital mobility. Endogenizing population growth introduces a new channel for taxes to affect economic growth and enables us to discriminate the effects of taxes on total versus per capita income growth. Allowing for capital mobility in the open economy, we show how the effects of taxes on population growth and income growth across countries will vary in specific ways, depending on the international income tax regimes and the relative preference bias of people towards the 'quantity' and 'quality' of children. The numerical results based on our calibrated model for the G-7 also indicate that, although the effects of liberalizing capital flows on long run growth may not be very sizable, the growth effects of changes in capital income tax rates can be tremendously magnified by cross-border capital flows and cross-border spillovers of policy effects.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] [' When should persistent current account deficits be of concern to policymakers? We address this question by developing a framework for analysing current account sustainability, that explicitly takes into account willingness to pay and willingness to lend in addition to intertemporal solvency. This framework helps understand a variety of country experiences with protracted current account imbalances. We identify a number of sustainability indicators related to the structure of the economy, the economic policy stance, and political economy factors, and use them to evaluate the experience of countries that suffered external crises and of others that avoided them. Copyright @ 1996 by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd. All rights reserved.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Like any trade activity, migration tends to generate gains to all parties involved - the migrants as well as the native-born population. With a mal-functioning labour market, however, migration will exacerbate the imperfections in the market. Consequently, it may lead to losses to the native-born population which are typically quite sizeable. Another economic problem raised by migration is the additional toll imposed on the welfare-state income-distribution institutions. Being unable to exclude migrants from the various entitlement programmes and public services, the modern welfare state can find migration rather costly. These two economic considerations may help explain the resistance to migration despite the pure gains-from-trade benefits created by it. Immigration could be more beneficial to the native-born population when labour markets are better functioning and the welfare programmes are less comprehensive.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [' The purpose of this paper is to implement empirically a variant of the new theory of exchange-rate targeting, suitable for high-inflation, small, open economies. We formulate an expectations-induced relationship between the exchange rate and the fundamental, subject to random shocks and target-zone constraints on rates of depreciation. The empirical analysis provides estimates for the key parameters of the exchange-rate dynamic equation, and thereby identifies the unique roles played by policy variables and market fundamentals in foreign-exchange markets. Copyright 1994 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd.'] ['This paper proposes a method for computing tax rates using national accounts and revenue statistics. Using this method we construct time-series of tax rates for large industrial countries. The method identifies the revenue raised by different taxes at the general government level and defines aggregate measures of the corresponding tax bases. This method yields estimates of effective tax rates on factor incomes and consumption consistent with the tax distortions faced by a representative agent in a general equilibrium framework. These tax rates compare favorably with existing estimates of marginal tax rates, and highlight important international differences in tax policy.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In a world economy there are two types of distortions which can be caused by capital income taxation in addition to the standard closed-economy wedge between the consumer-saver marginal intertemporal rate of substitution and the producer-investor marginal productivity of capital: (i)international differences in intertemporal marginal rates of substitution, implying an inefficient allocation of world savings across countries; and (ii) international differences in the marginal productivity of capital, implying an inefficient allocation of world investment across countries. The paper focuses on the structure of taxation for countries which are engaged in tax competition and on potential gains from s tax harmonization. We show that if the competing countries are sufficiently coordinated with the rest of the world then tax competition leads each country to apply the residence principle of taxation and there are no gains from tax harmonization. If, however there is not sufficient coordination,tax competition leads to low capital income taxes and the tax burden falls on the internationally immobile factors. The outcome is nevertheless still efficient relative to the available constrained set of tax instruments.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['Macroeconomic issues pertinent to the international and domestic effects of international VAT harmonization are highlighted, and VAT harmonization policies envisaged for Europe in 1992 are outlined. An intertemporal model is developed to analyze the incentive effects of various tax policies and their welfare implications. Dynamic simulations reveal that the macroeconomic and welfare implications of VAT harmonization depend critically on the tax system and the degree of substitution governing temporal and intertemporal allocations of savings, investment, and labor. The simulations also reveal a potential for significant conflicts of interest within each country and between countries.'] [' This article demonstrates that Ricardian equivalence does not necessarily hold in models with altruistic transfers once one takes into account the strategic behavior of recipients as well as donors. To influence the final allocation of consumption in altruistic settings, potential recipients can threaten to refuse transfers. The authors apply the extended Nash bargaining solution to the problem of an altruistic parent and a possible altruistic child. They show that when the government redistributes between the parent and child, it changes their endowments and the equilibrium threats and, thus, the final allocation of consumption. Copyright 1990 by Royal Economic Society.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['The paper develops an analytical framework which demonstrates that the various forms of exchange-rate management are equivalent to corresponding tax policies. To highlight the salient issues, we consider two specific categories of exchange-rate policies. The first is a dual exchange-rate regime, which separates exchange rates for commercial and for financial transactions, and the second is a unified exchange-rate system in which the country unilaterally pegs its exchange rate at the same rate for all transactions. We show that the dual exchange rate policies can be usefully cast as distortionary taxes on international borrowing, and a unified pegged exchange-rate policies can be usefully cast as lump-sum tax cum subsidy policies. The equivalence between the various characteristics of exchange-rate management and tax management suggests that exchange-rate analysis could be usefully incorporated into the broader framework of the analysis of fiscal policies. A two-country model of the world economy is used to demonstrate the international transmission mechanism of these policies.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] [" In an open economy with international capital flows, there is an equivalence relation between income tax, consumption tax, international borrowing tax, and an external interest earning tax. This paper analyzes tax reform involving shifts between income and consumption taxes in this setting. It is shown that the real effects of such revenue-neutral tax reform depend critically on the country's current account position and the nature of the reform. In particular, whether the world interest rate rises or falls as a consequence of a budget deficit depends on the tax system in force. The analysis provides a clear rationale for the international coordination of tax policies. Copyright 1989 by Royal Economic Society."] [" This paper's purpose is to develop and estimate a stochastic, intertemporal model of consumption be havior and to use it for testing a version of the Ricardian-equivalen ce proposition with time-series data. Two channels that may give rise to deviations from this proposition are specified: finite horizons a nd liquidity constraints. In addition, the model incorporates explici tly the roles of taxes, substitution between public and private consu mption, and different degrees of consumer goods' durability. The evid ence, based on data for Israel in the first half of the 1980s, suppor ts the Ricardian neutrality specification, yielding plausible estimat es for the behavioral parameters of the aggregate consumption functio n. Copyright 1988 by Ohio State University Press."] ["Bequest constraints have played a major role in discussions of debt neutrality but their welfare implications were not sufficiently dealt with in the literature. In this paper we focus on the welfare implications of bequest constraints. We found that when institutional constraints to the transfer of resources from children to their parents exists the welfare of the parents' generation may be improved by an old age security scheme. Such a scheme is justified not by income redistribution consideration, as is typically the case, but rather on pure efficiency grounds. Due to its intergenerational transfer role the social security scheme is Pareto-improving with altruistic parents if, in addition, the real income effect which tends to raise children consumption is relatively strong.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)"] ['Traditional analyses of budget deficits arising from tax cuts have focused on the size of the deficit and disregarded the underlying tax system. This paper examines the international effects of budget deficits under alternative tax systems. The key finding is that the consequences of tax policies and the characteristics of the international transmission mechanism depend critically on the composition of taxes. Under a value-added tax system, a budget deficit worsens the trade balance and raises the world interest rate; under an income-tax system, the same deficit improves the trade balance and lowers the world interest rate.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] [' Exchange-rate management is possible only if the government pursues consistent monetary and fiscal policies. The authors constructa model in which the real consequences of exchange-rate management depend on the precise time pattern of these policies. The authors study the constraints on feasible policies and the comparative dynamics of disinflation by means of exchange-rate targeting. Theoretical results are consistent with exchange-rate-managed disinflation attempts in Argentina, Chile, and Israel. Copyright 1987 by American Economic Association.'] ["The Mundell-Fleming model of international macroeconomics originated in the early 1960s and has been extended during the ensuing quarter century. This paper develops an exposition that integrates the various facets of the model and incorporates its extensions into a unified analytical framework. Attention is given to (1) the distinction between short-run and long-run effects of policies, (2) the implications of debt and tax financing of government expenditures, and (3) the role of the exchange rate regime in this regard. By identifying the key mechanisms operating in the model, the exposition clarifies the model's limitations and facilitates comparison with other, more current approaches."] ['The question of optimal population size is investigated for three alternative social welfare functions: (1) the total utility of the present and future generations (Benthamite), (2) the average utility (Millian), and (3) the individual utility of a member'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In recent years the world economy has been subject to large and unsyncronized changes in fiscal policies, high and volatile real rates of tnterest, large fluctuations in real exchange rates, and significant variations in private-sector spending. This paper reviews some of the key facts characterizing the effects of fiscal policies during the first half of the 1980s and provides a simple analytical framework suitable for the interpretation of these facts. The analytical framework builds on a two-country model of the world economy which is applied to the analysis of the transmission and effects of various changes in the time profile of taxes and of government spending. Generally, the predictions of the model concerning the relation among the intercountry patterns of consumption, long and short-term real rates of interest, real exchange rates and fiscal policies are consistent with the stylized facts.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['In this paper, we analyze the determinants of international movements of physical capital in a model with uncertainty and international trade in goods and securities.In our model, the world allocation of capital is governed, to some extent, by the asset preferences of risk averse consumer-investors. In a one-good variant in the spirit of the MacDougall model, we find that relative factor abundance, relative labor force size and relative production riskiness have separate but interrelated influences on the direction of equilibrium capital movements.These same factors remain important in a two-good version with Heckscher-Ohlin production structure. In this case, the direction of physical capital flow is determinate (unlike in a world of certaint and may hinge on the identity of the factor which is used intensively in the industry with random technology.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We study the full equilibrium dynamics of a two-country world economy with a floating exchange rate, traded and nontraded goods, and explicit modeling of the use of money. The resulting exchange rate equation depends on several details of the economic structure, such as the supply structure and propensities to spend on various goods. Although real exchange rate movements have the usual association with the current account, the ordinary exchange rate may appreciate or depreciate when there are deficits on current account even when the quantities of money do not change. Deviations from purchasing-power parity and the Fisher equation are shown to be the rule rather than the exception.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['We examine the protective effect of a tariff in a small economy with uncertainty and a stock market in which shares of firms are traded. In a deterministic economy, the allocation of resources is governed by commodity prices; in our economy, it is governed by equity prices and is dependent on commodity prices only to the extent that they influence equity prices. We show that in the absence of international trade in securities a tariff need not protect the import competing sector. In the presence of international trade in securities, a tariff always protects the import competing sector.<p>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.'] ['No abstract is available for this item.']